     * 2Types
     * 3Outplay games
       (BUTTON) Toggle Outplay games subsection
          + 3.1Trick-taking games
               o 3.1.1Plain-trick games
               o 3.1.2Point-trick games
          + 3.2Beating games
          + 3.3Adding games
          + 3.4Fishing games
          + 3.5Matching games
          + 3.6War group
          + 3.7Climbing games
     * 4Card exchange games
       (BUTTON) Toggle Card exchange games subsection
          + 4.1Draw and discard group
--
          + 4.5Card passing group
     * 5Layout games
       (BUTTON) Toggle Layout games subsection
          + 5.1Patience or solitaire games
               o 5.1.1Single player patiences or solitaires
               o 5.1.2Competitive patiences
          + 5.2Connecting games
     * 6Hand comparison games
       (BUTTON) Toggle Hand comparison games subsection
          + 6.1Vying games
               o 6.1.1Poker games
          + 6.2Banking games
     * 7Miscellaneous games
       (BUTTON) Toggle Miscellaneous games subsection
          + 7.1Compendium games
          + 7.2Combat games
     * 8Card games by objective
       (BUTTON) Toggle Card games by objective subsection
          + 8.1Capturing games
          + 8.2Shedding games
          + 8.3Combination games
          + 8.4Comparing games
     * 9Drinking games
     * 10Proprietary games
       (BUTTON) Toggle Proprietary games subsection
          + 10.1Collectible card games (CCGs)
          + 10.2Living card games (LCGs)
          + 10.3Simulation card games
     * 11Fictional card games
     * 12Typical structure of card games
       (BUTTON) Toggle Typical structure of card games subsection
          + 12.1Number and association of players
--
          + 12.3Determining who deals
          + 12.4Hands, rounds and games
          + 12.5Shuffling
--

Card game

--
   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
   Game using playing cards as the primary device
   For other uses, see Card game (disambiguation).

--

   A card game is any game using playing cards as the primary device with
   which the game is played, be they traditional or game-specific.
   Countless card games exist, including families of related games (such
   as poker). A small number of card games played with traditional decks
   have formally standardized rules with international tournaments being
   held, but most are folk games whose rules may vary by region, culture,
   location or from circle to circle.

   Traditional card games are played with a deck or pack of playing cards
   which are identical in size and shape. Each card has two sides, the
--
   In some cases several decks are shuffled together to form a single pack
   or shoe. Modern card games usually have bespoke decks, often with a
   vast amount of cards, and can include number or action cards. This type
   of game is generally regarded as part of the board game hobby.

   Games using playing cards exploit the fact that cards are individually
   identifiable from one side only, so that each player knows only the
   cards they hold and not those held by anyone else. For this reason card
   games are often characterized as games of chance or "imperfect
   information"—as distinct from games of strategy or perfect information,
   where the current position is fully visible to all players throughout
   the game.^[1] Many games that are not generally placed in the family of
   card games do in fact use cards for some aspect of their play.

   Some games that are placed in the card game genre involve a board. The
   distinction is that the play in a card game chiefly depends on the use
   of the cards by players (the board is a guide for scorekeeping or for
   card placement), while board games (the principal non-card game genre
   to use cards) generally focus on the players' positions on the board,
--
   Despite the presence of playing cards in Europe being recorded from
   around 1370, it is not until 1408 that the first card game is described
   in a document about the exploits of two card sharps; although it is
   evidently very simple, the game is not named. In fact the earliest
   games to be mentioned by name are Gleek, Ronfa and Condemnade, the
   latter being the game played by the aforementioned card cheats. All
   three are recorded during the 15th century,^[2] along with Karnöffel,
--

   Since the arrival of trick-taking games in Europe in the late 14th
   century, there have only been two major innovations. The first was the
--
   example of such cards was ordered by the Duke of Milan around 1420 and
   included 16 trumps with images of Greek and Roman gods.^[5] Thus games
   played with Tarot cards appeared very early on and spread to most parts
--
   Peninsula, and the Balkans.^[6] However, we do not know the rules of
   the early Tarot games; the earliest detailed description in any
   language being those published by the Abbé de Marolles in Nevers in
--
   The concept of trumps was sufficiently powerful that it was soon
   transferred to games played with far cheaper ordinary packs of cards,
   as opposed to expensive Tarot cards. The first of these was Triomphe,
--
   Spaniard who left his native country for Milan in 1509 never to return;
   thus the game may date to the late 15th century.^[9]^[10]^[11]

   Others games that may well date to the 15th century are Pochen – the
   game of Bocken or Boeckels being attested in Strasbourg in 1441^[12] –
   and Thirty-One, which is first mentioned in a French translation of a
   1440 sermon by the Italian, Saint Bernadine, the name actually
   referring to two different card games: one like Pontoon and one like
   Commerce.^[13]
--
   In the 16th century printed documents replace handwritten sources and
   card games become a popular topic with preachers, autobiographists and
   writers in general. A key source of the games in vogue in France and
   Europe at that time is François Rabelais, whose fictional character
   Gargantua played no less than 30 card games, many of which are
   recognisable. They include: Aluette, Bête, Cent, Coquimbert, Coucou,
--
   Cardano also provides invaluable information including the earliest
   rules of Trappola. Among the most popular were the games of Flusso and
   Primiera, which originated in Italy and spread throughout Europe,
--

   In Britain the earliest known European fishing game was recorded in
   1522.^[15] Another first was Losing Loadum, noted by Florio in 1591,
   which is the earliest known English point-trick game.^[16] In Scotland,
   the game of Mawe, testified in the 1550s, evolved from a country game
   into one played at the royal Scottish court, becoming a favourite of
   James VI.^[17] The ancestor of Cribbage – a game called Noddy – is
   mentioned for the first time in 1589, "Noddy" being the Knave turned
--

   The 17th century saw an upsurge in the number of new games being
   reported as well as the first sets of rules, those for Piquet appearing
   in 1632 and Reversis in 1634.^[8] The first French games compendium, La
   Maison Académique, appeared in 1654 and it was followed in 1674 by
   Charles Cotton's The Compleat Gamester, although an earlier manuscript
   of games by Francis Willughby was written sometime between 1665 and
   1670.^[19] Cotton records the first rules for the classic English games
   of Cribbage, a descendant of Noddy, and Whist, a development of English
--

   Piquet was a two-player, trick-taking game that originated in France,
   probably in the 16th century and was initially played with 36 cards
   before, around 1690, the pack reduced to the 32 cards that gives the
   Piquet pack its name. Reversis is a reverse game in which players avoid
   taking tricks and appears to be an Italian invention that came to
--

   In the mid-17th century, a certain game named after Cardinal Mazarin,
   prime minister to King Louis XIV, became very popular at the French
   royal court. Called Hoc Mazarin, it had three phases, the final one of
   which evolved into a much simpler game called Manille that was renamed
   Comète on the appearance of Halley's Comet in 1682.^[21] In Comète the
--
   advantage of being able to start a new sequence. This concept spread to
   other 17th and 18th century games including Poque, Comete, Emprunt,
   Manille, Nain Jaune and Lindor,^[22]^[23] all except Emprunt being
--
   It was the 17th century that saw the second of the two great
   innovations being introduced into trick-taking games: the concept of
   bidding.^[3] This first emerged in the Spanish game of Ombre, an
   evolution of Triomphe that "in its time, was the most successful card
   game ever invented."^[24] Ombre's origins are unclear and obfuscated by
   the existence of a game called Homme or Bête in France, ombre and homme
   being respectively Spanish and French for 'man'. In Ombre, the player
   who won the bidding became the "Man" and played alone against the other
   two. The game spread rapidly across Europe, spawning variants for
   different numbers of players and known as Quadrille, Quintille,
--

   The first rules of any game in the German language were those for
   Rümpffen published in 1608 and later expanded in several subsequent
   editions. In addition, the first German games compendium, Palamedes
   Redivivus appeared in 1678, containing the rules for Hoick (Hoc),
--

   The evolution of card games continued apace, with notable national
   games emerging like Briscola and Tressette (Italy), Schafkopf
   (Bavaria), Jass (Switzerland), Mariage, the ancestor of Austria's
   Schnapsen and Germany's Sixty-Six, and Tapp Tarock, the progenitor of
   most modern central European Tarot games. Whist spread to the continent
   becoming very popular in the north and west. In France, Comet appeared,
   a game that later evolved into Nain Jaune and the Victorian game of
   Pope Joan.
--

   [220px-Preferans_%28card_game%29_in_Croatia.2.jpg] Preferans, a
   trick-taking card game version popular in Croatia

   Card games may be classified in different ways: by their objective, by
   the equipment used (e.g. number of cards and type of suits), by country
   of origin or by mechanism (how the game is played). Parlett and McLeod
   predominantly group cards games by mechanism of which there are five
   categories: outplay, card exchange, hand comparison, layout and a
   miscellaneous category that includes combat and compendium games. These
   are described in the following sections.^[25]

Outplay games[edit]

   Easily the largest category of games in which players have a hand of
   cards and must play them out to the table. Play ends when players have
--

Trick-taking games[edit]

   See also: List of trick-taking games

   Trick-taking games are the largest category of outplay games. Players
   typically receive an equal number of cards and a trick involves each
--

   There are two main types of trick-taking game with different
   objectives. Both are based on the play of multiple tricks, in each of
--
   values of played cards one player wins or "takes" the trick. In
   plain-trick games the aim is to win a number of tricks, a specific
   trick or as many tricks as possible, without regard to the actual
   cards. In point-trick games, the number of tricks is immaterial; what
   counts is the value, in points, of the cards captured.^[26]

Plain-trick games[edit]

   Many common Anglo-American games fall into the category of plain-trick
   games. The usual objective is to take the most tricks, but variations
   taking all tricks, making as few tricks (or penalty cards) as possible
--
   popular examples. Hearts, Black Lady and Black Maria are examples of
   reverse games in which the aim is to avoid certain cards. Plain-trick
   games may be divided into the following 11 groups:^[26]

--
       bidding and the aim is to win as many tricks as possible.
     * No trump games. As above but there is no trump suit.
     * Put group. In Put, tricks are won by the highest card regardless of
--
       loses) the hand.
     * Trump group. Either trump games in which fewer cards are dealt
       (e.g. 5) or in which there are chosen suits.
     * Ombre group. Ombre introduced one of the two most significant
       features in the history of card games: bidding. Other common
       characteristics of this family are 3 matadors and a talon of
       undealt cards.
     * Boston group. Games of the Boston group are played like Whist, but
       players form alliances of two or three players depending on the
       outcome of bidding.
     * Auction Whist group. Auction or Bid Whist games involved fixed
       partnerships and an auction to determine the contract to be played.
     * Preference group. Games of the Préférence family are typically for
       three players who 10 cards each from a 32-card pack and bid to play
--
       expect to take and must achieve that to win.
     * Multi-trick group. Mostly Oriental games in which several cards may
       be led to a trick at once. However, some European games of the
       trump group, such as Bruus, also include this feature.

Point-trick games[edit]

   Point-trick games are all European or of European origin and include
   the Tarot card games. Individual cards have specific point values and
   the objective is usually to amass the majority of points by taking
--
   main groups:^[26]
     * Tarot games. All Tarot games use Tarot cards for their original
       purpose of playing games and are either French- or Spanish-suited.
       The tarots form a special trump suit and the counting cards are the
--
       cards. There are usually bonuses for certain feats or card
       combinations and most games have multiple contracts which the
       players may bid for. Notable examples include German Cego, Austrian
       Tarock, French Tarot and Italian Minchiate.
     * Manille group. A small group of mainly French and Spanish games
       originating in "Malille" characterised by the top card being the 9
       in Spanish games or the 10 in Belgian and French games. Additional
       counters are the AKQJ.
--
     * Trappola group. This family is virtually extinct. Its progenitor,
       Trappola, was a Venetian game that emerged in the 1500s and was
       played with a special pack that is still available from Piatnik
--
       (3). There were bonuses for certain trick-winning feats.
     * All Fours group. Based on the old English game of All Fours in
       which there were game points for High (highest trump), Low (lowest
       trump), Jack (of trumps) and Game (most card points). Surviving
       members of the group include American Pitch, British Phat and Irish
       Don.
     * Ace-Ten games. The Ace-Ten family includes most of the national
       games of Europe including German Skat, French Belote, Dutch
       Klaberjass, Austrian Schnapsen, Spanish Tute, Swiss Jass,
       Portuguese Sueca, Italian Briscola and Czech Mariáš. Pinochle is an
       American example of French or Swiss origin. Ace-Ten games may be
       further subdivided into the Schafkopf group, Marriage group (which
       includes the Jass group), the Sedma group and the German Tarok
       group (which includes American games like Frog and Six-Bid Solo.
     * Tresette group. Tressette is an Italian game with the odd card
       ranking of 32AKQJ7654. Aces count 1 point, treys, deuces and courts
--
       but Les Quatre Sept is played in Canada.
     * Reverse games. Historically the most significant was Reversis, now
       rarely played. The best known reverse game today is Black Lady
       albeit often misnamed after its predecessor, Hearts, thanks to
       Microsoft. Reverse games often feature in compendium games.
     * Miscellaneous games. These include small families of Oriental games
       such as the King-Ten-Five group, in which the counters are the
--

Beating games[edit]

   In beating games the idea is to beat the card just played if possible,
   otherwise it must be picked up, either alone or together with other
   cards, and added to the hand. In many beating games the objective is to
   shed all one's cards, in which case they are also "shedding games".
   Well known examples include Crazy Eights and Mau Mau.^[27]

Adding games[edit]

   This is a small group whose ancestor is Noddy, now extinct, but which
   generated the far more interesting games of Costly Colours and
   Cribbage. Players play in turn and add the values of the cards as they
--

Fishing games[edit]

   "Fishing game" redirects here. For the video game genre, see fishing
   video game.

   In fishing games, cards from the hand are played against cards in a
   layout on the table, capturing table cards if they match.^[29] Fishing
   games are popular in many nations, including China, where there are
   many diverse fishing games. Scopa is considered one of the national
   card games of Italy. Cassino is the only fishing game to be widely
   played in English-speaking countries. Zwicker has been described as a
   "simpler and jollier version of Cassino", played in Germany.^[30]
   Tablanet (tablić) is a fishing-style game popular in Balkans.

Matching games[edit]

   Main article: Matching game

   The object of a matching (or sometimes "melding") game is to acquire
   particular groups of matching cards before an opponent can do so. In
   Rummy, this is done through drawing and discarding, and the groups are
   called melds. Mahjong is a very similar game played with tiles instead
   of cards. Non-Rummy examples of match-type games generally fall into
   the "fishing" genre and include the children's games Go Fish and Old
   Maid.
--

   In games of the war group,^[31] also called "catch and collect games"
   or "accumulating games", the object is to acquire all cards in the
   deck. Examples include most War type games, and games involving
   slapping a discard pile such as Slapjack. Egyptian Ratscrew has both of
--

Climbing games[edit]

   Climbing games are an Oriental family in which the idea is to play a
   higher card or combination of cards that the one just played.
   Alternatively a player must pass or may choose to pass even if able to
   beat. The sole Western example is the game of President, which is
   probably derived from an Asian game.^[32]

Card exchange games[edit]

   Card exchange games form another large category in which players
   exchange a card or cards from their hands with table cards or with
   other players with the aim, typically, of collecting specific cards or
   card combinations. Games of the rummy family are the best known.

--

   In these games players draw a card from stock, make a move if possible
   or desired, and then discard a card to a discard pile. Almost all the
   games of this group are in the rummy family, but Golf is a non-rummy
   example.^[33]
--
   pool of cards on the table. Examples include Schwimmen, Kemps. James
   Bond and Whisky Poker. They originated in the old European games of
   Thirty-One and Commerce.
--

   A very old round game played in different forms in different countries.
   Players are dealt just one card and may try and swap it with a
   neighbour to avoid having the lowest card or, sometimes, certain
   penalty cards. The old French game is Coucou and its later English
   cousin is Ranter Go Round, also called Chase the Ace and Screw Your
--

   A family of such games played with special cards includes Italian Cucù,
   Scandinavian Gnav, Austrian Hexenspiel and German Vogelspiel.
--

   Games involving collecting sets of cards, the best known of which is
   Happy Families. Highly successful is its German equivalent, Quartett,
--

   Games involving passing cards to your neighbours. The classic game is
   Old Maid which may, however, be derived from German Black Peter and
   related to the French game of Vieux Garçon. Pig, with its variations of
   Donkey and Spoons, is also popular.

Layout games[edit]

Patience or solitaire games[edit]

   See also: Patience and solitaire games

   Most patience or card solitaire games are designed to be played by one
   player, but some are designed for two or more players to compete.^[25]
--

   Patience games originated in northern Europe and were designed for a
   single player, hence its subsequent North American name of solitaire.
   Most games begin with a specific layout of cards, called a tableau, and
   the object is then either to construct a more elaborate final layout,
--

Connecting games[edit]

--
   Parliament in which the idea is to build the four suits in sequence
   from a central card (the 7 in 52-card games or the Unter in 32-card
   packs). The winner is the first out and the loser the last left in
--

Hand comparison games[edit]

   Hand comparison games, also called comparing card games, are mostly
   gambling games that use cards. Players lay their initial stakes, are
   dealt cards, may or may not be able to exchange or add to them, and may
--
   some form of comparison of card values or combinations. The main groups
   are vying and banking games. A smaller mainly Oriental group are
   partition games in which players divide their hands before comparing.

Vying games[edit]

   Vying games, are those in which players bet or "vie" on who has the
   best hand. The player with the best combination of hand cards in a
--
   the hand. Easily the best known of the group around the world is Poker,
   which itself is a family of games with over 100 variants. Other
   examples include English Brag and the old Basque game of Mus. Most may
   be classified as gambling games and, while they may involve skill in
   terms of bluffing and memorising and assessing odds, they involve
--

Poker games[edit]

--

   Poker is a family of gambling games in which players bet into a pool,
   called the pot, the value of which changes as the game progresses that
   the value of the hand they carry will beat all others according to the
--
   including its age and its popularity among Western militaries, it is
   one of the most universally known card games in existence.

Banking games[edit]

   These are gambling games played for money or chips in which players
   compete, not against one another, but against a banker. They are
   commonly played in casinos, but many have become domesticised, played
   at home for sweets, matchsticks or points. In casino games, the banker
   will have a 'house advantage' that ensures a profit for the casino.
   Popular casino games include Blackjack and Baccarat, while Pontoon is a
   cousin of Blackjack that emerged from the trenches of the First World
   War to become a popular British family game.^[36]

Miscellaneous games[edit]

   These games do not fit into any of the foregoing categories. The only
   traditional games in this group are the compendium games, which date
   back at least 200 years, and Speculation, a 19th century trading game.

Compendium games[edit]

   Compendium games consist of a sequence of different contracts played in
   succession. A common pattern is for a number of reverse deals to be
   played, in which the aim is to avoid certain cards, followed by a final
   contract which is a domino-type game. Examples include: Barbu, Herzeln,
   Lorum and Rosbiratschka. In other games, such as Quodlibet and Rumpel,
   there is a range of widely varying contracts.

Combat games[edit]

   A new genre not recorded before 1970, most of which use proprietary
   cards of the collectible card game type (see below). The earliest and
   best known is Magic: The Gathering.

Card games by objective[edit]

   Another broad way of classifying card games is by objective. There are
   four main types as well as a handful of games that have miscellaneous
   objectives.

Capturing games[edit]

   In these games the objective is to capture cards or to avoid capturing
   them. These break down into the following:^[37]
     * Most cards. The aim is to capture as many cards as possible. Most
       plain trick games fall into this group.
     * Fewest cards. Common in compendium games, otherwise rare. Often
       occurs as a contract within a game known as a Misère, Bettel, Null
       or Nolo.
     * Exact number of cards. To win games of the exact bidding group a
       player must take the exact number of tricks bid.
     * Most points. In point-trick games and most fishing games, the aim
       is to capture the most points in cards.
--
       specific number of points e.g. Differenzler Jass.
     * Most or fewest points. In some Jass games e.g. Molotov, the aim is
       to secure either the most or fewest points, leaving the player in
       the middle as the loser.
     * Win last trick. In games like Tuppen, the player who takes the last
       trick wins; all earlier tricks are irrelevant. Some games also have
       a bonus or extra points for winning the last trick or winning it
       with a specific card.
     * Lose last trick. In a few games, e.g. Krypkille, the aim is to lose
       the last trick.
     * Mixed objectives. Some games, e.g. Kaiser, have both positive and
       negative point cards.

Shedding games[edit]

   See also: List of shedding-type games

   In a shedding game, also called an accumulating game, players start
   with a hand of cards, and the object of the game is to be the first
   player to discard all cards from one's hand. Common shedding games
   include Crazy Eights (commercialized by Mattel as Uno) and Daihinmin.
   Some matching-type games are also shedding-type games; some variants of
   Rummy such as Paskahousu, Phase 10, Rummikub, the bluffing game I Doubt
   It, and the children's games Musta Maija and Old Maid, fall into both
   categories.

  Combination games[edit]

   In many games, the aim is to form combinations of cards: by addition,
   by matching sets or forming sequences. All Rummy games are based on the
   last two principles, although in the basic variants, the end objective
   is to shed cards which makes them shedding games (see above). However,
   meld scoring variants such as Canasta or Rommé are true combination
   games.^[38]

  Comparing games[edit]

   Comparing card games are those where hand values are compared to
   determine the winner, also known as "vying" or "showdown" games. Poker,
   blackjack, mus, and baccarat are examples of comparing card games. As
   seen, nearly all of these games are designed as gambling games.

Drinking games[edit]

   Drinking card games are drinking games using cards, in which the object
   in playing the game is either to drink or to force others to drink.
   Many games are ordinary card games with the establishment of "drinking
   rules"; President, for instance, is virtually identical to Daihinmin
   but with additional rules governing drinking. Poker can also be played
   using a number of drinks as the wager. Another game often played as a
   drinking game is Toepen, quite popular in the Netherlands. Some card
   games are designed specifically to be played as drinking games.

Proprietary games[edit]

   These are card games played with a dedicated deck. Many other card
   games have been designed and published on a commercial or amateur
   basis. In a few cases, the game uses the standard 52-card deck, but the
   object is unique. In Eleusis, for example, players play single cards,
--

   Most of these games however typically use a specially made deck of
   cards designed specifically for the game (or variations of it). The
   decks are thus usually proprietary, but may be created by the game's
   players. Uno, Phase 10, Set, and 1000 Blank White Cards are popular
   dedicated-deck card games; 1000 Blank White Cards is unique in that the
   cards for the game are designed by the players of the game while
   playing it; there is no commercially available deck advertised as such.

  Collectible card games (CCGs)[edit]

   See also: Collectible card game and List of collectible card games

   Collectible card games (CCG) are proprietary playing card games. CCGs
   are games of strategy between two or more players. Each player has
   their own deck constructed from a very large pool of unique cards in
--
   art. New card sets are released periodically and sold as starter decks
   or booster packs. Obtaining the different cards makes the game a
   collectible card game, and cards are sold or traded on the secondary
   market. Magic: The Gathering, Pokémon, and Yu-Gi-Oh! are well-known
   collectible card games.

  Living card games (LCGs)[edit]

   See also: Living card game and Fantasy Flight Games

   Living card games (LCGs) are similar to collectible card games (CCGs),
   with their most distinguishing feature being a fixed distribution
   method, which breaks away from the traditional collectible card game
   format. While new cards for CCGs are usually sold in the form of
--
   LCGs thrive on a model that requires players to acquire one core set in
   order to play the game, which players can further customize by
   acquiring extra sets or expansions featuring new content in the form of
--
   players that get the same sets or expansions will get the exact same
   content. The term was popularized by Fantasy Flight Games (FFG) and
   mainly applies to its products, however some tabletop gaming companies
--

  Simulation card games[edit]

--

Fictional card games[edit]

   See also: List of fictional games § Card games

   Many games, including card games, are fabricated by science fiction
   authors and screenwriters to distance a culture depicted in the story
--
   depict background activities in an atmosphere like a bar or rec room,
   but sometimes the drama revolves around the play of the game. Some of
   these games become real card games as the holder of the intellectual
   property develops and markets a suitable deck and ruleset for the game,
   while others lack sufficient descriptions of rules, or depend on cards
--

Typical structure of card games[edit]

--
   t%2C_London.jpg] The Card Players, 1895 by Paul
   Cézanne[220px-Card_game%2C_circa_1930s.jpg] Historically, card games
   such as whist and contract bridge were opportunities for quiet
--

   Any specific card game imposes restrictions on the number of players.
   The most significant dividing lines run between one-player games and
   two-player games, and between two-player games and multi-player games.
   Card games for one player are known as solitaire or patience card
   games. (See list of solitaire card games.) Generally speaking, they are
   in many ways special and atypical, although some of them have given
   rise to two- or multi-player games such as Spite and Malice.

   In card games for two players, usually not all cards are distributed to
   the players, as they would otherwise have perfect information about the
   game state. Two-player games have always been immensely popular and
   include some of the most significant card games such as piquet,
   bezique, sixty-six, klaberjass, gin rummy and cribbage. Many
   multi-player games started as two-player games that were adapted to a
   greater number of players. For such adaptations a number of non-obvious
   choices must be made beginning with the choice of a game orientation.

   One way of extending a two-player game to more players is by building
   two teams of equal size. A common case is four players in two fixed
--
   usually restricted to a specific list of permitted signs and signals.
   17th-century French partnership games such as triomphe were special in
   that partners sat next to each other and were allowed to communicate
--

   Another way of extending a two-player game to more players is as a
   cut-throat or individual game, in which all players play for
   themselves, and win or lose alone. Most such card games are round
   games, i.e. they can be played by any number of players starting from
   two or three, so long as there are enough cards for all.

   For some of the most interesting games such as ombre, tarot and skat,
   the associations between players change from hand to hand. Ultimately
   players all play on their own, but for each hand, some game mechanism
   divides the players into two teams. Most typically these are solo
   games, i.e. games in which one player becomes the soloist and has to
   achieve some objective against the others, who form a team and win or
   lose all their points jointly. But in games for more than three
   players, there may also be a mechanism that selects two players who
--

   The players of a card game normally form a circle around a table or
   other space that can hold cards. The game orientation or direction of
   play, which is only relevant for three or more players, can be either
   clockwise or counterclockwise. It is the direction in which various
   roles in the game proceed. (In real-time card games, there may be no
   need for a direction of play.) Most regions have a traditional
--

   Games that originate in a region with a strong preference are often
   initially played in the original direction, even in regions that prefer
   the opposite direction. For games that have official rules and are
   played in tournaments, the direction of play is often prescribed in
--

   Most games have some form of asymmetry between players. The roles of
   players are normally expressed in terms of the dealer, i.e. the player
--
   players. Being the dealer can be a (minor or major) advantage or
   disadvantage, depending on the game. Therefore, after each played hand,
   the deal normally passes to the next player according to the game
   orientation.
--
   becomes dealer. In the case of a tie, the process is repeated by the
   tied players. For some games such as whist this process of cutting is
   part of the official rules, and the hierarchy of cards for the purpose
   of cutting (which need not be the same as that used otherwise in the
   game) is also specified. But in general, any method can be used, such
   as tossing a coin in case of a two-player game, drawing cards until one
   player draws an ace, or rolling dice.

  Hands, rounds and games[edit]

   A hand, also called a deal, is a unit of the game that begins with the
   dealer shuffling and dealing the cards as described below, and ends
--
   player who sits after the dealer in the direction of play is known as
   eldest hand (or in two-player games as elder hand) or forehand. A game
   round consists of as many hands as there are players. After each hand,
--
   eldest hand becomes the new dealer. Normally players score points after
   each hand. A game may consist of a fixed number of rounds.
   Alternatively it can be played for a fixed number of points. In this
--

   For casino games that are played for large sums it is vital that the
   cards be properly randomized, but for many games this is less critical,
   and in fact player experience can suffer when the cards are shuffled
--
   dealer then offers the deck to the previous player (in the sense of the
   game direction) for cutting. If the deal is clockwise, this is the
   player to the dealer's right; if counterclockwise, it is the player to
--
   the stock (also called the talon, widow, skat or kitty depending on the
   game and region).

--
   the cards but not the other players, or vice versa depending on the
   game. It is helpful to fan one's cards out so that if they have corner
   indices all their values can be seen at once. In most games, it is also
   useful to sort one's hand, rearranging the cards in a way appropriate
   to the game. For example, in a trick-taking game it may be easier to
   have all one's cards of the same suit together, whereas in a rummy game
   one might sort them by rank or by potential combinations.
--
   Normally communication between partners about tactics or the cards in
   their hands is forbidden. However, in a small number of games
   communication and/or signalling is permitted and very much part of the
   play. Most of these games are very old and, often, have rules of play
   that allow any card to be played at any time. Such games include:
     * Karnöffel, the oldest card game in Europe still played in some form
       today, played with German-suited cards, and its surviving
--
            French-suited cards
          + Kaiserspiel, Swiss game with a Swiss-suited pack of 48 cards
     * Mus, a Basque game known since the 18th century, played with a
       Spanish deck of forty cards;
     * Brisca, a Spanish game adapted from the French Brisque, is played
       with a Spanish pack of forty cards;
     * Watten, a Bavarian and Austrian game, is played with 36
       German-suited cards;
     * Perlaggen, a Tyrolean game played with 33 German-suited cards;
     * Truc y Flou, a card game of Aragonese origin.
     * Trut or Truc, reported in the west of France from the 16th
--

   A new card game starts in a small way, either as someone's invention,
   or as a modification of an existing game. Those playing it may agree to
   change the rules as they wish. The rules that they agree on become the
   "house rules" under which they play the game. A set of house rules may
   be accepted as valid by a group of players wherever they play, as it
--

   When a game becomes sufficiently popular, so that people often play it
   with strangers, there is a need for a generally accepted set of rules.
--
   There is nothing static or "official" about this process. For the
   majority of games, there is no one set of universal rules by which the
   game is played, and the most common ruleset is no more or less than
   that. Many widely played card games, such as Canasta and Pinochle, have
   no official regulating body. The most common ruleset is often
   determined by the most popular distribution of rulebooks for card
   games. Perhaps the original compilation of popular playing card games
   was collected by Edmund Hoyle, a self-made authority on many popular
   parlor games. The U.S. Playing Card Company now owns the eponymous
   Hoyle brand, and publishes a series of rulebooks for various families
   of card games that have largely standardized the games' rules in
   countries and languages where the rulebooks are widely distributed.
--

   If there is a sense in which a card game can have an official set of
   rules, it is when that card game has an "official" governing body. For
   example, the rules of tournament bridge are governed by the World
--
   down by the Schafkopfschule in Munich. Even in these cases, the rules
   must only be followed at games sanctioned by these governing bodies or
   where the tournament organisers specify them. Players in informal
--

   An infraction is any action which is against the rules of the game,
   such as playing a card when it is not one's turn to play or the
--

   In many official sets of rules for card games, the rules specifying the
   penalties for various infractions occupy more pages than the rules
   specifying how to play correctly. This is tedious but necessary for
   games that are played seriously. Players who intend to play a card game
   at a high level generally ensure before beginning that all agree on the
--

   If a player breaks the rules of a game deliberately, this is cheating.
   The rest of this section is therefore about accidental infractions,
--

   As the same game is played repeatedly among a group of players,
   precedents build up about how a particular infraction of the rules
--
   formalized, as described in the previous section. Therefore, for some
   games, there is a "proper" way of handling infractions of the rules.
   But for many games, without governing bodies, there is no standard way
   of handling infractions.
--
   who broke a rule should not benefit from it, and the other players
   should not lose by it. An exception to this may be made in games with
   fixed partnerships, in which it may be felt that the partner(s) of the
--

   The oldest surviving reference to the card game in world history is
   from the 9th century China, when the Collection of Miscellanea at
   Duyang, written by Tang-dynasty writer Su E, described Princess
   Tongchang (daughter of Emperor Yizong of Tang) playing the "leaf game"
   with members of the Wei clan (the family of the princess's husband) in
--
   century.^[44]^: 35  The earliest European references speak of a Saracen
   or Moorish game called naib, and in fact an almost complete Mamluk
   Egyptian deck of 52 cards in a distinct oriental design has survived
--
   Latin-suited deck augmented by suitless cards with painted motifs that
   played a special role as trumps. Tarot card games are still played with
   (subsets of) these decks in parts of Central Europe. A full tarot deck
--
   occult type, and are closely associated with fortune telling. In
   Europe, "playing tarot" decks remain popular for games, and have
   evolved since the 18th century to use regional suits (spades, hearts,
--
   cards. Decks differ regionally based on the number of cards needed to
   play the games; the French tarot consists of the "full" 78 cards, while
   Germanic, Spanish and Italian Tarot variants remove certain values
--
   52-card French deck, also called the International or Anglo-American
   pattern, used for such games as poker and contract bridge. It contains
   one card for each unique combination of thirteen ranks and the four
--
   did not become common until after 1864 when Hart reintroduced them
   along with the knave-to-jack change.) However, books of card games
   published in the third quarter of the 19th century evidently still
--
   mother-of-pearl gambling tokens used in scoring and bidding of card
   games.

   In the 17th century, a French, five-trick, gambling game called Bête
   became popular and spread to Germany, where it was called La Bete and
   England where it was named Beast. It was a derivative of Triomphe and
   was the first card game in history to introduce the concept of
   bidding.^[46]
--
   Chinese handmade mother-of-pearl gaming counters were used in scoring
   and bidding of card games in the West during the approximate period of
   1700–1840. The gaming counters would bear an engraving such as a coat
--
   Charlotte is one prominent British individual who is known to have
   played with the Chinese gaming counters. Card games such as Ombre,
   Quadrille and Pope Joan were popular at the time and required counters
   for scoring. The production of counters declined after Whist, with its
   different scoring method, became the most popular card game in the
   West.^[47]

   Based on the association of card games and gambling, Pope Benedict XIV
   banned card games on October 17, 1750.^[48]

--

     * icon Games portal

     * Game of chance
     * Game of skill
     * R. F. Foster (games)
     * Henry Jones (writer) who wrote under the pseudonym "Cavendish"
     * John Scarne
     * Dice game
     * List of card games by number of cards

--

    1. ^ David Parlett (September 30, 2013). "Card Game". Encyclopedia
       Britannica. Archived from the original on September 13, 2018.
--
       Playing-Card. 18 (1, 2): 28–32, 33–38.
    6. ^ David Parlett, Oxford Dictionary of Card Games, pg. 300 Oxford
       University Press (1996) ISBN 0-19-869173-4
--
   16. ^ Florio (1591), p. 67.
   17. ^ Maw at parlettgames.uk. Retrieved 26 November 2022.
   18. ^ Noddy: Knavish ancestor of Cribbage at parlettgames.uk. Retrieved
       26 November 2023.
--
   22. ^ Parlett (1991), pp. 88/89
   23. ^ Les jeux de hocs on the Academy of Forgotten Games website.
   24. ^ Dummett (1980), p. 264.
   25. ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d ^e ^f Classified Index of Card Games at pagat.com.
       Retrieved 29 December 2023.
   26. ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d Trick Taking Games at pagat.com. Retrieved 28
       December 2023.
   27. ^ Beating games at pagat.com. Retrieved 29 December 2023.
   28. ^ Adding Games at pagat.com. Retrieved 29 December 2023.
   29. ^ "Card Games: Fishing Games". Pagat.com. March 6, 2011. Archived
       from the original on November 24, 2006. Retrieved January 28, 2012.
   30. ^ Parlett, David. The Penguin Book of Card Games. London: Penguin
       (2008), p. 405. ISBN 978-0-14-103787-5.
   31. ^ War Group at pagat.com. Retrieved 29 December 2023.
   32. ^ Climbing Games at pagat.com. Retrieved 29 December 2023.
   33. ^ Draw and Discard Games at pagat.com. Retrieved 29 December 2023.
   34. ^ Competitive Patience at pagat.com. Retrieved 29 December 2023.
   35. ^ Vying Games at pagat.com. Retrieved 29 December 2023.
   36. ^ Banking Games at pagat.com. Retrieved 29 December 2023.
   37. ^ Capturing Games at pagat.com. Retrieved 30 December 2023.
   38. ^ Combination Games at pagat.com. Retrieved 30 December 2023.
   39. ^ "Why Do Math?". www.whydomath.org. Archived from the original on
--
   44. ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d David Sidney Parlett (1990). The Oxford guide to card
       games. Internet Archive. Oxford University Press.
       ISBN 978-0-19-214165-1.
--
       63: 106–128, doi:10.2307/751160, JSTOR 751160, S2CID 192948205
   46. ^ "Euchre: history of, by David Parlett". www.parlettgames.uk.
       Archived from the original on May 4, 2019. Retrieved December 29,
--
       Richard James and John Butler, 1750. Context: "In the Edict lately
       published against all Games on the Cards, it is enacted, that the
       Penalty on Delinquents shall be a Fine of 500 Crowns ; but if any
--

     Depaulis, Thierry (1990). "Pochspiel: an 'International' Card Game of
   the 15th Century – Part I" in The Playing-Card, Vol. 19, No. 2
--

     Parlett, David (1991). A History of Card Games, OUP, Oxford.
   ISBN 0-19-282905-X
--

   Wikimedia Commons has media related to Card games.

     * International Playing Card Society
     * Rules for historic card games
     * Collection of rules to many card games

--

   Non trick-taking card games

--
     * Cutting
     * Glossary of card game terms

--

     * {{Historical card games}} {{Patience}} {{Trick-taking card games}}
       {{Tarot and Tarock card games}}

--

   Trick-taking card games (list)

--

     * Category {{Historical card games}} {{Non trick-taking card games}}
       {{Tarot and Tarock card games}}

--

   Tabletop games by type

   Board game

     * Adventure board game
     * Amerigame
     * Cooperative board game
     * Deduction board game
     * Eurogame
     * Race game
          + Cross and circle game
     * Legacy game
     * Running-fight game
     * Tables game
     * Tile-based game
          + Dominoes
          + Chinese dominoes
     * Train game
          + 18XX

   Card game

     * Collectible card game
     * Deck-building game
     * Dedicated deck card game
     * Shedding-type games
     * Patience
     * Tarot card games
     * Trick-taking game

   Strategy game

     * Abstract strategy game
          + Connection game
          + Tafl games
     * Constructible strategy game
     * Miniatures game
          + Collectible miniatures game
     * Wargame

--

     * Dice game
     * Matching game
     * Megagame
     * Icehouse pieces
     * Paper-and-pencil game
     * Social deduction game
     * Tabletop role-playing game

--
   Retrieved from
   "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Card_game&oldid=1193162913"

   Categories:
     * Card games
     * Tabletop games
