          + 2.3Skill, strategy, and chance
          + 2.4Single-player games
          + 2.5Multiplayer games
               o 2.5.1Game theory
     * 3Types
--
          + 3.1Sports
               o 3.1.1Lawn games
          + 3.2Tabletop games
               o 3.2.1Dexterity and coordination games
               o 3.2.2Board games
               o 3.2.3Card games
               o 3.2.4Dice games
               o 3.2.5Domino and tile games
               o 3.2.6Pencil and paper games
               o 3.2.7Guessing games
          + 3.3Video games
               o 3.3.1Online games
          + 3.4Role-playing games
          + 3.5Business games
          + 3.6Simulation
--

Game

--
   Structured form of play
   For other uses, see Game (disambiguation).

--
   rawer%2C_ca._1390-1353_B.C.E.%2C49.56a-b.jpg] Ancient Egyptian senet
   game board inscribed for Amenhotep III with separate sliding drawer,
   from 1390 to 1353 BC, made of glazed faience, dimensions: 5.5 × 7.7 ×
--

   A game is a structured form of play, usually undertaken for
   entertainment or fun, and sometimes used as an educational tool.^[1]
   Many games are also considered to be work (such as professional players
   of spectator sports or games) or art (such as jigsaw puzzles or games
   involving an artistic layout such as Mahjong, solitaire, or some video
   games).

   Games are sometimes played purely for enjoyment, sometimes for
   achievement or reward as well. They can be played alone, in teams, or
--
   audience of non-players, such as when people are entertained by
   watching a chess championship. On the other hand, players in a game may
   constitute their own audience as they take their turn to play. Often,
   part of the entertainment for children playing a game is deciding who
   is part of their audience and who is a player. A toy and a game are not
   the same. Toys generally allow for unrestricted play whereas games
   present rules for the player to follow.

   Key components of games are goals, rules, challenge, and interaction.
   Games generally involve mental or physical stimulation, and often both.
   Many games help develop practical skills, serve as a form of exercise,
   or otherwise perform an educational, simulational, or psychological
--

   Attested as early as 2600 BC,^[2]^[3] games are a universal part of
   human experience and present in all cultures. The Royal Game of Ur,
   Senet, and Mancala are some of the oldest known games.^[4]

--

   Look up game in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.

--
   Ludwig Wittgenstein was probably the first academic philosopher to
   address the definition of the word game. In his Philosophical
   Investigations,^[5] Wittgenstein argued that the elements of games,
   such as play, rules, and competition, all fail to adequately define
   what games are. From this, Wittgenstein concluded that people apply the
   term game to a range of disparate human activities that bear to one
   another only what one might call family resemblances. As the following
   game definitions show, this conclusion was not a final one and today
   many philosophers, like Thomas Hurka, think that Wittgenstein was wrong
--
   French sociologist Roger Caillois, in his book Les jeux et les hommes
   (Games and Men)(1961),^[7] defined a game as an activity that must have
   the following characteristics:
--

   Game designer Chris Crawford defined the term in the context of
   computers.^[8] Using a series of dichotomies:
--
    3. If no goals are associated with a plaything, it is a toy. (Crawford
       notes that by his definition, (a) a toy can become a game element
       if the player makes up rules, and (b) The Sims and SimCity are
       toys, not games.) If it has goals, a plaything is a challenge.
    4. If a challenge has no "active agent against whom you compete", it
       is a puzzle; if there is one, it is a conflict. (Crawford admits
       that this is a subjective test. Video games with noticeably
       algorithmic artificial intelligence can be played as puzzles; these
--
       However, if attacks are allowed, then the conflict qualifies as a
       game.

--
   Other definitions, however, as well as history, show that entertainment
   and games are not necessarily undertaken for monetary gain.

--
       Suits^[9]
     * "A game is a form of art in which participants, termed players,
       make decisions in order to manage resources through game tokens in
       the pursuit of a goal." (Greg Costikyan)^[10] According to this
       definition, some "games" that do not involve choices, such as
       Chutes and Ladders, Candy Land, and War are not technically games
       any more than a slot machine is.
     * "A game is a form of play with goals and structure." (Kevin J.
       Maroney)^[11]
     * "A game is a system in which players engage in an artificial
       conflict, defined by rules, that results in a quantifiable
       outcome." (Katie Salen and Eric Zimmerman)^[12]
     * "A game is an activity among two or more independent
       decision-makers seeking to achieve their objectives in some
       limiting context." (Clark C. Abt)^[13]
     * "At its most elementary level then we can define game as an
       exercise of voluntary control systems in which there is an
--
       Brian Sutton-Smith)^[14]
     * "To play a game is to engage in activity directed toward bringing
       about a specific state of affairs, using only means permitted by
--
     * "When you strip away the genre differences and the technological
       complexities, all games share four defining traits: a goal, rules,
       a feedback system, and voluntary participation." (Jane
--

   Games can be characterized by "what the player does".^[8] This is often
   referred to as gameplay. Major key elements identified in this context
   are tools and rules that define the overall context of game.

--

   [220px-Game_pieces.jpg] A selection of pieces from different games.
   From top: Chess pawns, marbles, Monopoly tokens, dominoes, Monopoly
--

   Games are often classified by the components required to play them
   (e.g. miniatures, a ball, cards, a board and pieces, or a computer). In
   places where the use of leather is well-established, the ball has been
   a popular game piece throughout recorded history, resulting in a
   worldwide popularity of ball games such as rugby, basketball, soccer
   (football), cricket, tennis, and volleyball. Other tools are more
   idiosyncratic to a certain region. Many countries in Europe, for
   instance, have unique standard decks of playing cards. Other games such
   as chess may be traced primarily through the development and evolution
   of its game pieces.

   Many game tools are tokens, meant to represent other things. A token
   may be a pawn on a board, play money, or an intangible item such as a
--

   Games such as hide-and-seek or tag do not use any obvious tool; rather,
   their interactivity is defined by the environment. Games with the same
   or similar rules may have different gameplay if the environment is
   altered. For example, hide-and-seek in a school building differs from
   the same game in a park; an auto race can be radically different
   depending on the track or street course, even with the same cars.
--

   Games are often characterized by their tools and rules. While rules are
   subject to variations and changes, enough change in the rules usually
   results in a "new" game. For instance, baseball can be played with
   "real" baseballs or with wiffleballs. However, if the players decide to
   play with only three bases, they are arguably playing a different game.
   There are exceptions to this in that some games deliberately involve
   the changing of their own rules, but even then there are often
--

   The rules of a game may be distinguished from its aims.^[17]^[18] For
   most competitive games, the ultimate aim is winning: in this sense,
   checkmate is the aim of chess.^[19] Common win conditions are being
   first to amass a certain quota of points or tokens (as in Settlers of
   Catan), having the greatest number of tokens at the end of the game (as
   in Monopoly), or some relationship of one's game tokens to those of
   one's opponent (as in chess's checkmate). There may also be
--
   because scoring goals will increase one's likelihood of winning the
   game, but is not alone sufficient to win the game.

--
   is not required. While meeting the aims often requires a certain degree
   of skill and (in some cases) luck, following the rules of a game merely
   requires knowledge of the rules and some careful attempt to follow
--

   A game's tools and rules will result in its requiring skill, strategy,
   luck, or a combination thereof, and are classified accordingly.

   Games of skill include games of physical skill, such as wrestling, tug
   of war, hopscotch, target shooting, and stake, and games of mental
   skill such as checkers and chess. Games of strategy include checkers,
   chess, Go, arimaa, and tic-tac-toe, and often require special equipment
   to play them. Games of chance include gambling games (blackjack,
   Mahjong, roulette, etc.), as well as snakes and ladders and rock,
   paper, scissors; most require equipment such as cards or dice. However,
   most games contain two or all three of these elements. For example,
   American football and baseball involve both physical skill and strategy
   while tiddlywinks, poker, and Monopoly combine strategy and chance.
   Many card and board games combine all three; most trick-taking games
   involve mental skill, strategy, and an element of chance, as do many
   strategic board games such as Risk, Settlers of Catan, and Carcassonne.

Single-player games

   "Single-player game" redirects here. For single-player video games, see
   Single-player video game.

   Most games require multiple players. However, single-player games are
   unique in respect to the type of challenges a player faces. Unlike a
   game with multiple players competing with or against each other to
   reach the game's goal, a one-player game is a battle solely against an
   element of the environment (an artificial opponent), against one's own
--
   playing tennis against a wall is not generally recognized as playing a
   game due to the lack of any formidable opposition. Many games described
   as "single-player" may be termed actually puzzles or recreations.

Multiplayer games

   "Multiplayer game" redirects here. For multiplayer video games, see
   Multiplayer video game.
   [220px-The_Card_Players_by_Lucas_van_Leyden.jpg] The Card Players by
   Lucas van Leyden (1520) depicting a multiplayer card game

   A multiplayer game is a game of several players who may be independent
   opponents or teams. Games with many independent players are difficult
   to analyze formally using game theory as the players may form and
   switch coalitions.^[20] The term "game" in this context may mean either
   a true game played for entertainment or a competitive activity
   describable in principle by mathematical game theory.

Game theory

   Main article: Game theory

   John Nash proved that games with several players have a stable solution
   provided that coalitions between players are disallowed. Nash won the
   Nobel prize for economics for this important result which extended von
   Neumann's theory of zero-sum games. Nash's stable solution is known as
   the Nash equilibrium.^[21]

   If cooperation between players is allowed, then the game becomes more
   complex; many concepts have been developed to analyze such games. While
   these have had some partial success in the fields of economics,
--

   In quantum game theory, it has been found that the introduction of
   quantum information into multiplayer games allows a new type of
   equilibrium strategy not found in traditional games. The entanglement
   of player's choices can have the effect of a contract by preventing
--

   See also: List of game genres
   [220px-Tug-of-war.jpg] Tug of war is an easily organized, impromptu
   game that requires little equipment.

   Games can take a variety of forms, from competitive sports to board
   games and video games.

--
   Popular sports may have spectators who are entertained just by watching
   games. A community will often align itself with a local sports team
   that supposedly represents it (even if the team or most of its players
--

Lawn games

   Lawn games are outdoor games that can be played on a lawn; an area of
   mowed grass (or alternately, on graded soil) generally smaller than a
   sports field (pitch). Variations of many games that are traditionally
   played on a sports field are marketed as "lawn games" for home use in a
   front or back yard. Common lawn games include horseshoes, sholf,
   croquet, bocce, and lawn bowls.

Tabletop games

   Main article: Tabletop game

   A tabletop game is a game where the elements of play are confined to a
   small area and require little physical exertion, usually simply
   placing, picking up and moving game pieces. Most of these games are
   played at a table around which the players are seated and on which the
   game's elements are located. However, many games falling into this
   category, particularly party games, are more free-form in their play
   and can involve physical activity such as mime. Still, these games do
   not require a large area in which to play them, large amounts of
--

    Dexterity and coordination games

   This class of games includes any game in which the skill element
   involved relates to manual dexterity or hand-eye coordination, but
   excludes the class of video games (see below). Games such as jacks,
   paper football, and Jenga require only very portable or improvised
--
   hockey require specialized tables or other self-contained modules on
   which the game is played. The advent of home video game systems largely
   replaced some of these, such as table hockey, however air hockey,
   billiards, pinball and foosball remain popular fixtures in private and
   public game rooms. These games and others, as they require reflexes and
   coordination, are generally performed more poorly by intoxicated
   persons but are unlikely to result in injury because of this; as such
   the games are popular as drinking games. In addition, dedicated
   drinking games such as quarters and beer pong also involve physical
   coordination and are popular for similar reasons.

    Board games

   Main article: Board game

--

   Board games use as a central tool a board on which the players' status,
   resources, and progress are tracked using physical tokens. Many also
   involve dice or cards. Most games that simulate war are board games
   (though a large number of video games have been created to simulate
   strategic combat), and the board may be a map on which the players'
   tokens move. Virtually all board games involve "turn-based" play; one
   player contemplates and then makes a move, then the next player does
   the same, and a player can only act on their turn. This is opposed to
   "real-time" play as is found in some card games, most sports and most
   video games.

   Some games, such as chess and Go, are entirely deterministic, relying
   only on the strategy element for their interest. Such games are usually
   described as having "perfect information"; the only unknown is the
   exact thought processes of one's opponent, not the outcome of any
   unknown event inherent in the game (such as a card draw or die roll).
   Children's games, on the other hand, tend to be very luck-based, with
   games such as Candy Land and Chutes and Ladders having virtually no
   decisions to be made. By some definitions, such as that by Greg
   Costikyan, they are not games since there are no decisions to make
   which affect the outcome.^[10] Many other games involving a high degree
   of luck do not allow direct attacks between opponents; the random event
   simply determines a gain or loss in the standing of the current player
   within the game, which is independent of any other player; the "game"
   then is actually a "race" by definitions such as Crawford's.

   Most other board games combine strategy and luck factors; the game of
   backgammon requires players to decide the best strategic move based on
   the roll of two dice. Trivia games have a great deal of randomness
   based on the questions a person gets. German-style board games are
   notable for often having rather less of a luck factor than many board
   games.

   Board game groups include race games, roll-and-move games, abstract
   strategy games, word games, and wargames, as well as trivia and other
   elements. Some board games fall into multiple groups or incorporate
   elements of other genres: Cranium is one popular example, where players
--

    Card games

   Main article: Card game

   Further information: Collectible card game

--

   Card games use a deck of cards as their central tool. These cards may
   be a standard Anglo-American (52-card) deck of playing cards (such as
   for bridge, poker, Rummy, etc.), a regional deck using 32, 36 or
   40 cards and different suit signs (such as for the popular German game
   skat), a tarot deck of 78 cards (used in Europe to play a variety of
   trick-taking games collectively known as Tarot, Tarock or Tarocchi
   games), or a deck specific to the individual game (such as Set or 1000
   Blank White Cards). Uno and Rook are examples of games that were
   originally played with a standard deck and have since been
   commercialized with customized decks. Some collectible card games such
   as Magic: The Gathering are played with a small selection of cards that
--

   Some board games include a deck of cards as a gameplay element,
   normally for randomization or to keep track of game progress.
   Conversely, some card games such as Cribbage use a board with movers,
   normally to keep score. The differentiation between the two genres in
   such cases depends on which element of the game is foremost in its
   play; a board game using cards for random actions can usually use some
   other method of randomization, while Cribbage can just as easily be
--

    Dice games

   Main article: Dice game

--

   Dice games use a number of dice as their central element. Board games
   often use dice for a randomization element, and thus each roll of the
   dice has a profound impact on the outcome of the game, however dice
   games are differentiated in that the dice do not determine the success
   or failure of some other element of the game; they instead are the
   central indicator of the person's standing in the game. Popular dice
   games include Yahtzee, Farkle, Bunco, Liar's dice/Perudo, and Poker
   dice. As dice are, by their very nature, designed to produce apparently
   random numbers, these games usually involve a high degree of luck,
   which can be directed to some extent by the player through more
   strategic elements of play and through tenets of probability theory.
   Such games are thus popular as gambling games; the game of Craps is
   perhaps the most famous example, though Liar's dice and Poker dice were
   originally conceived of as gambling games.

    Domino and tile games

   Main articles: Tile-based game and Dominoes

   Domino games are similar in many respects to card games, but the
   generic device is instead a set of tiles called dominoes, which
--
   "pips", and each combination of two possible end values as it appears
   on a tile is unique in the set. The games played with dominoes largely
   center around playing a domino from the player's "hand" onto the
--
   dominoes available, which allows larger hands and more players in a
   game. Muggins, Mexican Train, and Chicken Foot are very popular domino
   games. Texas 42 is a domino game more similar in its play to a
   "trick-taking" card game.

--
   theory but are triangular and thus have three values per tile.
   Similarly, a game known as Quad-Ominos uses four-sided tiles.

   Some other games use tiles in place of cards; Rummikub is a variant of
   the Rummy card game family that uses tiles numbered in ascending rank
   among four colors, very similar in makeup to a 2-deck "pack" of
   Anglo-American playing cards. Mahjong is another game very similar to
   Rummy that uses a set of tiles with card-like values and art.

   Lastly, some games use graphical tiles to form a board layout, on which
   other elements of the game are played. Settlers of Catan and
   Carcassonne are examples. In each, the "board" is made up of a series
   of tiles; in Settlers of Catan the starting layout is random but
   static, while in Carcassonne the game is played by "building" the board
   tile-by-tile. Hive, an abstract strategy game using tiles as moving
   pieces, has mechanical and strategic elements similar to chess,
--

    Pencil and paper games

   Main article: Paper-and-pencil game

   Pencil and paper games require little or no specialized equipment other
   than writing materials, though some such games have been commercialized
   as board games (Scrabble, for instance, is based on the idea of a
   crossword puzzle, and tic-tac-toe sets with a boxed grid and pieces are
   available commercially). These games vary widely, from games centering
   on a design being drawn such as Pictionary and "connect-the-dots" games
   like sprouts, to letter and word games such as Boggle and
   Scattergories, to solitaire and logic puzzle games such as Sudoku and
   crossword puzzles.

    Guessing games

   Main article: Guessing game

   A guessing game has as its core a piece of information that one player
   knows, and the object is to coerce others into guessing that piece of
   information without actually divulging it in text or spoken word.
   Charades is probably the most well-known game of this type, and has
   spawned numerous commercial variants that involve differing rules on
   the type of communication to be given, such as Catch Phrase, Taboo,
   Pictionary, and similar. The genre also includes many game shows such
   as Win, Lose or Draw, Password and $25,000 Pyramid.

  Video games

   Main article: Video game

   See also: Electronic game

   Video games are computer- or microprocessor-controlled games. Computers
   can create virtual spaces for a wide variety of game types. Some video
   games simulate conventional game objects like cards or dice, while
   others can simulate environs either grounded in reality or fantastical
--

   A computer or video game uses one or more input devices, typically a
   button/joystick combination (on arcade games); a keyboard, mouse or
   trackball (computer games); or a controller or a motion sensitive tool
   (console games). More esoteric devices such as paddle controllers have
   also been used for input.

   There are many genres of video game; the first commercial video game,
   Pong, was a simple simulation of table tennis. As processing power
   increased, new genres such as adventure and action games were developed
   that involved a player guiding a character from a third person
   perspective through a series of obstacles. This "real-time" element
   cannot be easily reproduced by a board game, which is generally limited
   to "turn-based" strategy; this advantage allows video games to simulate
   situations such as combat more realistically. Additionally, the playing
   of a video game does not require the same physical skill, strength or
   danger as a real-world representation of the game, and can provide
   either very realistic, exaggerated or impossible physics, allowing for
   elements of a fantastical nature, games involving physical violence, or
   simulations of sports. Lastly, a computer can, with varying degrees of
   success, simulate one or more human opponents in traditional table
   games such as chess, leading to simulations of such games that can be
   played by a single player.
--
   In more open-ended computer simulations, also known as sandbox-style
   games, the game provides a virtual environment in which the player may
   be free to do whatever they like within the confines of this universe.
   Sometimes, there is a lack of goals or opposition, which has stirred
   some debate on whether these should be considered "games" or "toys".
   (Crawford specifically mentions Will Wright's SimCity as an example of
--

    Online games

   Main article: Online game

   Online games have been part of culture from the very earliest days of
   networked and time-shared computers. Early commercial systems such as
   Plato were at least as widely famous for their games as for their
   strictly educational value. In 1958, Tennis for Two dominated Visitor's
--

   Modern online games are played using an Internet connection; some have
   dedicated client programs, while others require only a web browser.
   Some simpler browser games appeal to more casual game-playing
   demographic groups (notably older audiences) that otherwise play very
   few video games.^[23]

  Role-playing games

   Main article: Role-playing game

   Role-playing games, often abbreviated as RPGs, are a type of game in
   which the participants (usually) assume the roles of characters acting
   in a fictional setting. The original role playing games – or at least
   those explicitly marketed as such – are played with a handful of
--
   setting; or vicariously experience an adventure outside the bounds of
   everyday life. Pen-and-paper role-playing games include, for example,
   Dungeons & Dragons and GURPS.

   The term role-playing game has also been appropriated by the video game
   industry to describe a genre of video games. These may be single-player
   games where one player experiences a programmed environment and story,
   or they may allow players to interact through the internet. The
   experience is usually quite different from traditional role-playing
   games. Single-player games include Final Fantasy, Fable, The Elder
   Scrolls, and Mass Effect. Online multi-player games, often referred to
   as Massively Multiplayer Online role playing games, or MMORPGs, include
   RuneScape, EverQuest 2, Guild Wars, MapleStory, Anarchy Online, and
--

  Business games

--

   Business games can take a variety of forms, from interactive board
   games to interactive games involving different props (balls, ropes,
   hoops, etc.) and different kinds of activities. The purpose of these
   games is to link to some aspect of organizational performance and to
   generate discussions about business improvement. Many business games
   focus on organizational behaviors. Some of these are computer
--

   Main article: Simulation game

   The term "game" can include simulation^[25]^[26] or re-enactment of
   various activities or use in "real life" for various purposes: e.g.,
   training, analysis, prediction. Well-known examples are war games and
   role-playing. The root of this meaning may originate in the human
   prehistory of games deduced by anthropology from observing primitive
   cultures, in which children's games mimic the activities of adults to a
   significant degree: hunting, warring, nursing, etc. These kinds of
   games are preserved in modern times.^[original research?]

--

     * icon Games portal

   Wikimedia Commons has media related to Game.

   Main article: Outline of games

     * Game club – Association of people united by a common interest or
       goalPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
     * Game mechanics – Construct, rule, or method designed for
       interaction with a game's state
     * Gamer – Hobbyist who plays video games
     * Girls' games and toys – Subset of toy and games that appeal to
       female childrenPages displaying short descriptions of redirect
       targets
     * History of games
     * Learning through play – Concept in education and psychology
     * List of games – Overview of and topical guide to gamesPages
       displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
--
       fallback
     * Ludology – Study of games and the act of playing themPages
       displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
--
       targets
     * Mobile game – Video game played on a mobile device
     * N-player game – a game with n-players, typically used in contrast
       to 2-player gamesPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a
       fallback
     * Personal computer game – Electronic game played on a personal
       computerPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
--

    1. ^ "Definition of GAME". Merriam-Webster. Retrieved 7 May 2017.
    2. ^ Soubeyrand, Catherine (2000). "The Royal Game of Ur". The Game
       Cabinet. Retrieved 5 October 2008.
    3. ^ Green, William (19 June 2008). "Big Game Hunter". 2008 Summer
       Journey. Time. Archived from the original on 20 June 2008.
       Retrieved 5 October 2008.
    4. ^ "History of Games". MacGregor Historic Games. 2006. Retrieved 5
       October 2008.
--
       Oxford: Blackwell. ISBN 978-0-631-23127-1.
    6. ^ "Was Wittgenstein Wrong About Games?". Nigel Warburton. 2007.
       Retrieved 28 June 2013.
    7. ^ Caillois, Roger (1957). Les jeux et les hommes. Gallimard.
    8. ^ ^a ^b ^c Crawford, Chris (2003). Chris Crawford on Game Design.
       New Riders. ISBN 978-0-88134-117-1.
--
       2008.
   11. ^ Maroney, Kevin (2001). "My Entire Waking Life". The Games
       Journal. Archived from the original on 21 November 2008. Retrieved
       17 August 2008.
   12. ^ Salen, Katie; Zimmerman, Eric (2003). Rules of Play: Game Design
       Fundamentals. MIT Press. p. 80. ISBN 978-0-262-24045-1.
   13. ^ Clark C. Abt (1987). Serious Games. University Press of America.
       ISBN 978-0-8191-6148-2.
   14. ^ Avedon, Elliot; Sutton-Smith, Brian (1971). The Study of Games.
       J. Wiley. p. 405. ISBN 978-0-471-03839-9.
   15. ^ Suits, Bernard (1967). "What Is a Game?". Philosophy of Science.
       34 (2): 148–156. doi:10.1086/288138. JSTOR 186102. S2CID 119699909.
--
       Acts: Studies in the Philosophy of Language.
   20. ^ K.G. Binmore (1994). Game Theory and the Social Contract. MIT
       Press. ISBN 978-0-262-02444-0.
   21. ^ ^a ^b Laszlo Mero; Anna C. Gosi-Greguss; David Kramer (1998).
       Moral calculations: game theory, logic, and human frailty. New
       York: Copernicus. ISBN 978-0-387-98419-3.
   22. ^ Simon C. Benjamin & Patrick M. Hayden (13 August 2001).
       "Multiplayer quantum games". Physical Review A. 64 (3): 030301.
       arXiv:quant-ph/0007038. Bibcode:2001PhRvA..64c0301B.
--
   23. ^ De Schutter, Bob (March 2011). "Never Too Old to Play: The Appeal
       of Digital Games to an Older Audience". Games and Culture. 6 (2):
       155–170. doi:10.1177/1555412010364978. ISSN 1555-4120.
--

     * Avedon, Elliot; Sutton-Smith, Brian, The Study of Games.
       (Philadelphia: Wiley, 1971), reprinted Krieger, 1979.
--

   Game genres

--

   List of game genres

--
   Retrieved from
   "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Game&oldid=1192743513"

   Categories:
     * Games
     * 26th-century BC establishments
