   This blog explains that it is not just gaming disorder that needs to be
   addressed by helping professionals but the traumatic toxic experiences
   that clients are exposed to when playing video games.

How to identify gaming disorder
--
   At INTENTA, we categorize gaming into four stages which we call the
   gaming continuum:
    1. Recreational gaming: About 90% of gamers are casual players for
       whom gaming is a fun activity.
    2. At-risk gaming: About 10% of gamers fall more into the at-risk
       category and have some degree of problematic behavior.
    3. Problematic gaming: About 5% of gamers begin to experience negative
       consequences of their gaming behavior.
    4. Gaming disorder: 1-3% of gamers fall into this category, where
       gaming causes significant impairment in their life. Learn more in
       our article on gaming disorder prevalence.
--
Toxicity in gaming statistics

   Although there are many positive aspects of video games - such as
   increased psychological well-being and enhanced cognitive skills - hate
   and harassment are regular occurrences. A 2020 nationally
   representative survey^1 of US gamers aged 18-45 found that:
     * 81% of people who played online multiplayer games experienced some
       form of harassment, compared to 74% of gamers in the 2019 survey.
     * 68% of respondents experienced more severe abuse, including
       physical threats, stalking, and sustained harassment, up from 65%
       in 2019. That represents around 45 million online gamers in the US
       reporting significant harassment.
     * The video games where players experienced most harassment while
       playing were DOTA 2 (80%), Valorant (80%), Rocket League (76%),
       Grand Theft Auto (76%), Call of Duty (75%) and Counter Strike:
       Global Offensive (75%).
     * 53% of gamers who experienced harassment were targeted because of
       their race/ethnicity, religion, ability status, gender or sexual
       orientation.
     * 41% of female gamers and 37% of LGBTQ gamers were harassed about
       their gender and sexual orientation.
     * 31% of Black gamers and 30% of Hispanic/Latinx gamers experienced
       in-game harassment because of their race or ethnicity.
     * 25% of Asian-American gamers experienced harassment based on their
       identity.
     * 25% of disabled gamers were targeted because of their disability.
     * 18% of Jewish gamers and 25% of Muslim gamers said they were
       subjected to harassment.
     * 28% of gamers who experienced harassment avoided certain games due
       to their hostile environments.

Why are online games so toxic?

   Players sometimes rationalize toxic gaming culture as a normal and
   acceptable part of gaming. Research has shown that toxic behavior is
   contagious^2 among players and exposure in previous games increases the
   likelihood that a player will commit toxic acts in future games. Also,
   more experienced and skillful players are more likely to engage in
   toxic and abusive behaviors than those who are new to gaming.
--
   This occurs when someone is reported to law enforcement for a crime
   they did not commit in the hope that the subsequent police raid is
   broadcast during a live streaming game.

Doxing
--
Griefing

   Griefing is deliberately harassing or disrupting the game of another
   player within a multiplayer environment. Often this anti-social
   behavior becomes the main goal of the game rather than winning. These
   players are known as griefers.

--

   This abuse can be used as a tactic to try to throw someone off their
   game. It is similar to tactics sometimes employed in athletic sport but
   it takes on a different level because, unlike athletic sport where
   there are coaches and psychologists to help deal with the consequences,
--
   There are several measures that players can take to avoid online
   toxicity, hate and harassment. These include:
     * Blocking and muting - Players can turn off or mute their in-game
       chat and decide if they want to continue with the game.
     * Reporting abuse - Most video games and gaming platforms have abuse
       reporting procedures.
     * Standing up against toxicity - Family, educators and friends should
       encourage gamers to stand up against online toxicity instead of
       fuelling a bystander culture where in-game hate and harassment is
       ignored and normalized.

--

   When helping professionals treat clients with gaming disorder it is
   important they understand the cultural context of video games. Many
   players presenting with problematic behaviors will have been negatively
   impacted by toxicity, harassment and other online abuse. This can lead
