   From the affordable to the insanely expensive, any of these guns will
   serve you well should you come face to face with one of the world's
   aggressive game species

   By Richard Mann | Published Jan 30, 2019 7:00 PM EST
     * Guns

   dangerous game rifles hunting ox
   Richard Mann

--
   We may earn revenue from the products available on this page and
   participate in affiliate programs. Learn More >
   young hunter kneeling next to giant black ox No, a dangerous game rifle
   does not have to cost as much as a used pickup truck. But, it does have
   to pack a punch and be every time, all the time, reliable. Richard Mann

   Regardless of what you've read, and what you might hear experts advise,
   the number one requirement of a dangerous game rifle is reliability. It
   can be exquisitely beautiful with engravings of naked concubines and
   vicious creatures, but if it does not work every time and all the time,
   it is not a dangerous game rifle.

   Many believe a rifle of this sort has to be expensive but that's not
   the case. It only must work and deliver a hard enough hit to get the
   job done. Knowing those facts, if you can afford to hunt dangerous
   game, you can probably afford a reliable and (very) nice hard-hitting
   rifle. To help find one that's right for you, here is a list of 20 of
   the finest dangerous game guns available, working from a beer to a
   champagne budget.
   Mossberg Patriot Laminate Marinecote rifle
--
   Mossberg Patriot Laminate Marinecote o Price: $629

   When most folks think of dangerous game rifles, they think of broken
   wallets and maxed-out credit cards. It doesn't have to be that way.
   Mossberg's Patriot Laminate is a rugged and reliable bolt-action rifle.
   It comes with open sights, a fantastically functional detachable
   magazine, and a great trigger. It's also chambered for the .375 Ruger,
   which is all the gun you need for dangerous game, whether it be lions,
   tigers or bears.
   http://www.anrdoezrs.net/links/8265158/type/dlg/https://www.basspro.com
--

   Drilled and tapped for scope mounting, but also fitted with adjustable
   open sights, and chambered for the most classic of all dangerous-game
   cartridges--the .375 H&H--this rifle is ready for rough country and
   perilous encounters. The stainless steel action and barrel are fitted
--
   stalking. Many professional hunters prefer the 550's Mauser-style
   extractor and fixed ejector, and the rifle is available for most of the
   hard-hitting big bore cartridges synonymous with dangerous game
   hunting.
   Ruger Hawkeye African rifle
--
   Available in .375 H&H, .416 Remington Magnum, and .458 Winchester
   Magnum, the Model 70 Safari Express is a fine representation of what
   many expect in a dangerous game rifle. The satin finished stock has cut
   checkering, the steel bottom metal is one-piece, and the pre-64
   Winchester action is one that is revered by African professional
--

   Though this may not be the traditional action and cartridge associated
   with dangerous game hunting, the Ruger No. 1 offers a level of
   reliability and strength that is unmatched. And, the .475 Linebaugh
   cartridge will push a 370-grain bullet to almost 1,600 fps. The
--
   With three times the ammo capacity of a double rifle and faster
   follow-up shots than a bolt action, it could be argued that this fine
   quality .45-70 from the Marlin Custom Shop is ideal for dangerous game.
   Custom crafted to your color preferences, the action of this Marlin
   Model 1895 is smoothed to perfection, and all metal surfaces are coated
--

   Don't let anyone tell you the push-feed Model 700 action is not up to
   the task when it comes to dangerous game hunting. Not only is it
   reliable, but you can drop a cartridge in the ejection port and close
   the bolt for a follow-up shot if you run the rifle dry--something most
--

   Gorgeous and deadly might be the best way to describe this bolt-action
   rifle built for African safaris and dangerous game hunting. Constructed
   on the famous Dakota Model 76 action, it's available for right or left
   hand shooters, with a XXX walnut stock, hand-cut checkering, ebony
--
   The brand new Professional Hunter from Dakota Arms features their
   respected Model 76 action and a custom fiberglass stock with pillar
   bedding. Designed for the dangerous game hunter who values ruggedness
   over beauty, the rifle's 23-inch Premium Douglas barrel is Cerakoted
   and a quarter rib fixed sight and hooded fiber optic front sight are
--
   sophistication of modern manufacturing technology, the beautiful
   Krieghoff Classic Double rifle is available in the most common
   chamberings for an African safari or dangerous game hunting. It
   features a manual cocking device that allows carrying while fully
   loaded with the hammers uncocked. With options that include additional
--

   For more than 35 years, the Heym 88B has been the company's flagship
   dangerous game rifle, and it's likely the most common double rifle in
   Africa. Handcrafted for a perfect fit and with a host of customizing
   options available, holding this rifle can make your knees feel weak.
--
   grand. A few customizations later you have created what might be the
   most fabulous rifle ever. With a rifle like this, it won't matter if
   you ever hunt dangerous game or not--you can just sit by the fire ring
   and brag about it.
   Holland & Holland Royal Double Rifle
--

   Holland & Holland's Royal Double rifle might be the most iconic
   dangerous game rifle of all time. Built to deal with any four-legged
   danger while providing the instinctive handling of a finely fitted
   shotgun, these rifles exude luxury, craftsmanship, and history.
