
A Brief History of Games

--

   Human history and games are inextricably intertwined. Irrefutable
   evidence resounds down through the ages that fun and games are not
   frivolous pursuits per se—instead, they come naturally to us as
   essential parts of being alive. When you understand the evolution of
   games, you can begin to make intelligent choices about what elements of
   games you might want to include in your gamification designs.

--
   beings are just better evolved monkeys, it’s likely that we’ve been
   playing games for a long, long time. We were probably playing games
   before we learned to speak or even to stand on two legs.

   That means we have no idea what the first games we played were like.
   However, we do have a good idea of the timeline of modern game
   development.
--
   Southeastern Iran, archeologists discovered a 3,000-year-old set of
   dice! We don’t know exactly what games those early Persians would have
   played with them, but the popularity of dice has endured throughout the
--

   Dice games have been with mankind for a very long time, as you can see
   from this cave painting.
--

   In 14th-century England, people were playing a game called Hazard (it’s
   mentioned in that famous work The Canterbury Tales by Geoffrey
--
   It had a very complex rule set and has since been supplanted by dice
   games with simpler rules.

--
   cube with dots and nothing more—as an effective, if chancy, determinant
   is ageless. You may not know this, but the most popular game in casinos
   would remain—well into the 21st century—a dice game. Craps is the only
   game in a gambling house where the odds are in favour of the gambler.
   Despite this, it’s the most profitable game for the casinos; people
   don’t seem to know just when to stop playing. And play they
--

   There are references to tile games in China that are over 2,900 years
   old. Dominoes emerged 1,000 years later during the Song Dynasty (also
   in China). However, Western dominoes probably only began in the 18th
   century, and Mahjong (the most popular tile game in the world – it’s of
   Chinese origin) didn’t arrive until the 19th century.

Board Games are Even Older

   If you enjoy a game of Monopoly or Scrabble, it would appear that you
   are in good company. The earliest known board games are 5,000 years old
   and were played by the Egyptians. We don’t know the rules of these
   games, but there is a “Senet” board that dates back to about 3500 B.C.!

   The Chinese invented their first known board game in 200 B.C., and, in
   Western Europe, they were playing Tafl (a game very similar to chess)
   from 400 B.C.

   Chess is often considered to be the “archetypal” board game and is
   itself very old, but there were board games well prior to the invention
   of chess.
--
   If you’ve ever played Go, Chess, Backgammon or Nine Men’s Morris, then
   you’ve played a game with more than a thousand years of history! Go is
   from 200 B.C. in Korea, Backgammon from Iran around 600 A.D. (complete
--

   Snakes and Ladders, one of the world’s most popular children’s games
   probably began in India in the 16th century. And, surprise, surprise,
   dice power the probability for players in that game, too.

   The first commercial board game arrived in the year 1800 and was
   produced by George Fox in England. It was called the Mansion of
   Happiness and was essentially a “race game” similar to Ludo. The oldest
   surviving board game company is Milton Bradley (whose famous games
   include; Downfall, Hungry Hippos and Connect 4), who were formed in
--

   The Mansion of Happiness was the very first board game to be produced
   commercially (i.e., on an industrial basis).
--

   Card games are a more recent invention, and the first use of a card
   deck was probably in Ancient China. They would have been played during
--
   The four-suit (hearts, spades, clubs and diamonds) deck that we’re most
   familiar with was invented in France around 1480. The oldest card game
   that we still play is probably Cribbage, which came from the 17th
--

   In the 1990s, cards were revisited and games like ‘Magic! The
   Gathering’ were introduced and became incredibly popular. Card games
   would also extend to trumps—a classic favourite in British schools,
--

Table Games

   Carom, is possibly the oldest table game (it’s very similar to
   tiddlywinks or shuffleboard), but no-one knows exactly when or where it
--

   The game pictured above, may look (at first glance) like pool, but it’s
   actually a modern billiards table—as you can see by the lack of pockets
--

   As you can see, games have a long rich history, and whenever you decide
   to play a game, you’re in good company. Human beings have been playing
   games throughout the centuries. They are part of the human experience.

What about Electronic Games?

   You may be surprised to find that the first electronic game was
   invented in the United States before the computer! A patent was filed
--
   also in the United States, (very few) people began playing computer
   games on mainframe systems – these would have been out of reach for the
   vast majority of people as the hardware would have been astronomically
--

   The first games console was the Magnavox Odyssey – released in 1972.
   Arcade games such as Space Invaders, Pacman, etc. began life in 1978
   and became hugely popular into the early 1980s. During that time, quite
--
   industry killed off most of the companies involved in 1983. When the
   Japanese picked up the reins and began developing video games, console
   gaming became universally popular, signalling the slow downfall of the
   arcade game.

     “Everyone has played video games at some point these days, and video
     games are fun.”
     —PewDiePie, Swedish comedian and web producer

   Games have a long history, as you can see, and the electronic game’s
   roots stretch right back to the earliest of human games. It’s not that
   our ancestors needed to tell us that games go with the territory of
   being alive; games are hardwired into our DNA.

--

   Human history and games are inextricably intertwined. For millennia,
   people have held an innate compulsion to play, and that won’t change
--
   powerful wonder of dice, to the timeless strategising involved in
   chess, and on up to a library of latter-day board games that run the
   gamut in their levels of sophistication. As long as you’ve got an
   understanding the evolution of games, you can begin to make intelligent
   choices about what elements of games you might want to include in your
   gamification designs.
--

   The Institute of Play examines the history of games in a learning
   context.
--
   Bartle’s Player Types for Gamification
   Gamification is not the same as game design, because it adds game-like
   elements to non-gaming environments. However, the
--

A Game Explained (an example of a single game and how it meets the rules of
fun)

   A Game Explained (an example of a single game and how it meets the
   rules of fun)
   Fun is the key to how games work, and it’s the key to making
   gamification work, too. Without fun, gamification is simply
--

Work in Games

   Work in Games
   Very few people look forward to work. If you weren’t working, you could
--
   Kumar, J., Herger, M. and Dam, R. F. (2022, February 19). A Brief
   History of Games. Interaction Design Foundation - IxDF.
   Kumar, Janaki., Herger, Mario. and Dam, Rikke Friis. “A Brief History
   of Games” Interaction Design Foundation - IxDF. 6 Dec. 2023
   J. Kumar., M. Herger. and R. F. Dam. “A Brief History of Games”
   Interaction Design Foundation - IxDF. (accessed Dec. 6, 2023).
   Janaki Kumar., Mario Herger. and Rikke Friis Dam. 2022. A Brief History
   of Games Retrieved December 6, 2023 from
   [ ] Cite selection
