--
   Features

Why We Play Boardgames

   My husband and I have spent the last ten years playing board games
   together. No, I'm not talking about seeing if we need anger management
   classes by playing Monopoly or choosing which career path we want to
--
   we weren't really into the "typical" dates. Rather than dinner and a
   movie or going to college parties, we spent the majority of our time
   together learning card games, and teaching each other our family
   favorites. When we tired of Canasta and Sequence, we began looking for
   something new and stumbled into the world of hobby board gaming. We
   started out slow like a swimmer testing the water, and over the years
   have dove head first into the deep end where our hobby has grown into
   shelves full of games that have brought us, our family, and our friends
   closer together through hours spent laughing, playing, and enjoying
   each others company over the many different games brought to the table.

   While this is definitely a hobby of ours, over the years and as our
--
   many reasons why we love board gaming and why we have made it an
   important part of our family for us and our four kids. We think that
   every family can benefit by incorporating board games into their lives.
   Yes, I know that may sound a bit nerdy, but here us out.

--
   we make sure to actually schedule time for our family to just be
   together and bond; no places to be except home with each other. We use
   this time to play games with our kids. Now, our kids are young, so it's
   not always as idyllic as we go into it hoping it will be. But what we
   see is our kids engaged with each other learning to take turns, follow
--
   their own lives, its the importance of spending meaningful time
   together and finding joy in simple fun, whether that comes from a board
   game or not.

   Games also allow us to have great date nights at home. Finding a sitter
--
   when we can't we are still making time for us to be together and pursue
   one another. We'll put the kids to bed, come downstairs, and for a few
   hours we'll take time to play a game. Maybe we'll even spend what we
   would have spent on a date and get a new game to enjoy; when it comes
   to bang for your buck, you can't beat buying a board game that you will
   be able to enjoy a countless number of times rather than just once.

--
   is that as technology has taken over more of my life, I am looking for
   more and more ways to unplug. When we spend a night engaged in a board
   game, we walk away with memories, laughs, and a fun experience that can
   only come from face-to-face social interaction. Board games are
   incredibly versatile; you can take them with you to play indoors or
   out, and they open the door for a wonderful social experience with your
--

   You'd be surprised by the level of mental engagement required to play
   modern board games. In games like Candyland, the winner is already
   determined before the first card has even been flipped - there is
   nothing you can do. But in today's board games you have a variety of
   styles, from puzzles to tactical area control games to keep you and
   your brain sharp and always thinking. The challenges provided by
   physical board games are better than anything you'll find in some app,
   even apps of the board games you might be playing.

   The strategy required to play and win requires you to make touch
--
   the reading and language skills required to interpret the rules,
   hand-eye dexterity enhancment, and math skills required to play the
   game itself.  Whether you're playing a difficult strategy game or a
   light hearted party game, there are an endless number of options that
   invite you to think through a variety of mental challenges, making you
   perhaps just a bit smarter along the way.
--
   Something for Everyone

   As mentioned above, we have been hobbyist board gamers for the last ten
   years, which seems kind of crazy thinking about it. But over the years
   this really has developed into a passion for us. We board game for many
   reasons, more than even listed above, but the main reason is, without a
   doubt, for the experiences it provides between us and our family and
   friends. We love being able to gather round a table, phones aside, and
   spend time connecting with people, old friends and new. The board game
   is really just a vehicle for us to bring people together and enjoy each
   others company. Over the last ten years we've had our fair share of
   friends and family that have told us that they "don't like board games"
   and time and time again, we've found that there truly is something for
   everyone in this hobby.

   You don't have to like every game, we certainly don't, but the
   diversity offered by today's games is simply incredible and if you've
   made it this far down this post and are wondering where to start, then
   you're in luck! What would a post about the benefits of board gaming
--
   hobby is truly a joy and is something that we love to share with anyone
   who will let us and especially our kids who have no choice! So without
   further ado, here are some board game ideas to get you started!

   Happy Gaming!
--
   Ticket to Ride

   This game has really broken through the hobby wall and has become much
   more mainstream over the years, you may have even seen it in your local
   Target. This game is simple to learn, but far more layered in its
   tactical strategy. Players collect cards of various types of train cars
   that they then use to claim railway routes across North America. The
   longer the route, the more points earned. Along the way you try to
   complete Destination Tickets, secret routes connecting distant cities
   that will score you more points at the end of the game. You must
   balance greed as you take on more routes to earn more points, and fear
   as you might lose a critical route to a competitor and thus cost
   yourself points in the end.

   This game has a multitude of expansions offering different train maps
   featuring different countries and states, but we recommend the original
   game with the North American map to start and it is great for the whole
   family starting at about age 8.

--

   More of a cooperative player? Great! You might love Pandemic! In this
   game several virulent diseases have broken out simultaneously all
   across the globe and it is your mission to fight these while
   researching cures before they take over the world. Players take on
--
   situation gets out of hand.

   This game is incredibly fun and endlessly re-playable. Start at a
   beginners difficulty level, once you've mastered that, work your way up
   to expert and see if you've got what it takes. This is a great way to
   work on your kids' problem solving skills and is best for gamers of all
   ages starting at age 10.

   King of Tokyo

   If you know how to play Yahtzee you can play this game, promise! King
   of Tokyo is a hit with everyone as players take on the role of mutant
   monsters, robots, and aliens all trying to destroy the other and become
--

   With a little help from an adult, King of Tokyo can easily be played by
   gamers as young as 6, but don't let that deter you, this is far from a
   kid game and will offer tons of fun for teens and adult gamers as
   well.

   Survive: Escape from Atlantis!

   Survive is a simple, yet cutthroat game where players try to evacuate
   their pieces from an island that is breaking up while remembering where
   their highest-valued pieces are located to maximize score. The journey
--
   monsters. Find out who your true friends are as you all attempt to
   sabotage each other's escape plans so you can stand victorious with the
   most points on shore before the island blows up. This game plays up to
   four and works well for ages 6 and above.

   This post contains affiliate links at no cost to you. To read our full
   disclosure click here.
   board game

Related Posts
--
   asking to play Holly Jolly a bunch, and with all the great, festive
   math practice it has, it's an easy yes! Sharing this and more fun
   Christmas themed games on the blog today! Head to TheTabletopFamily.com
   to check it out! My kids have been asking to play Holly Jolly a bunch,
   and with all the great, festive math practice it has, it's an easy yes!
   Sharing this and more fun Christmas themed games on the blog today!
   Head to TheTabletopFamily.com to check it out!
   I'll play these games any day, any time! I'll play these games any day,
   any time! I'll play these games any day, any time!
   I get it! Sometimes it can be hard getting a group I get it! Sometimes
   it can be hard getting a group to all agree to play a game. These tips
   are what we use when bringing game to or hosting gatherings for our
   This isn't the time to grab that brand new game and learn the rules at
   the party. You want to go for the games you've played countless times
   and can quickly teach. Your confidence will help build their
--
   Since everyone might be arriving to the gathering at different times or
   joining the table after cleaning up those Christmas dessert dishes, I
   like to select games that they can easily be dealt into half way
   through or join a team. If not that, then games with quick rounds for
   just start setting the game up! If you have a game you know you're
   group will love, get the ball rolling and take action. I even love to
   ask a soon-to-be-player to help me set the game up. "Hey could you
   shuffle these for me?" We never force anyone to join in, but you'll be
   surprised how quickly folks come over to see what's happening and end
   up joining in on the fun. So don't be afraid to make the first move and
   get the game on the table! Now you'll be needing some game ideas! Here
   are 5 of our favorites to bring to gatherings with friends and family:
   Just One Ready Set Bet Cover Your Assets Point Salad Challengers! I get
   it! Sometimes it can be hard getting a group to all agree to play a
   game. These tips are what we use when bringing game to or hosting
   know back to front. This isn't the time to grab that brand new game and
   learn the rules at the party. You want to go for the games you've
   played countless times and can quickly teach. Your confidence will help
--
   easily! Since everyone might be arriving to the gathering at different
   times or joining the table after cleaning up those Christmas dessert
   dishes, I like to select games that they can easily be dealt into half
   way through or join a team. If not that, then games with quick rounds
   moment, just start setting the game up! If you have a game you know
   you're group will love, get the ball rolling and take action. I even
   love to ask a soon-to-be-player to help me set the game up. "Hey could
   you shuffle these for me?" We never force anyone to join in, but you'll
   be surprised how quickly folks come over to see what's happening and
   end up joining in on the fun. So don't be afraid to make the first move
   and get the game on the table! Now you'll be needing some game ideas!
   Here are 5 of our favorites to bring to gatherings with friends and
   family: Just One Ready Set Bet Cover Your Assets Point Salad
   Challengers!
   Codenames is one of the best party games. That fee Codenames is one of
   the best party games. That feeling of excitment that comes when you are
   able to successfully deliver a clever clue that your teammates
   correctly interpret will never get old! It's one of the more thoughtful
   party games and a great example of pairing fun with strategy. If you're
   a fan of Codenames or are looking for some great party games to play
   this holiday season, then check out these other great titles! Don't
   forget to share in the comments the games you would add to these
   suggestions! And if you're hungry for more game ideas, I'm sharing a
   full post on the blog today! Codenames is one of the best party games.
   That feeling of excitment that comes when you are able to successfully
   deliver a clever clue that your teammates correctly interpret will
   never get old! It's one of the more thoughtful party games and a great
   example of pairing fun with strategy. If you're a fan of Codenames or
   are looking for some great party games to play this holiday season,
   then check out these other great titles! Don't forget to share in the
   comments the games you would add to these suggestions! And if you're
   hungry for more game ideas, I'm sharing a full post on the blog today!
   Nothing better than a good refresh! Nothing better than a good refresh!
   Nothing better than a good refresh!
   Want to know a fun surprise in this game? You can Want to know a fun
   surprise in this game? You can scan each package with your phone to
   find out what's inside! Such a fun touch! Want to know a fun surprise
   in this game? You can scan each package with your phone to find out
   what's inside! Such a fun touch!
   Load More... Follow on Instagram
