
   As the weather warms up and everyone heads outside, be ready to ward
   off all of the "I'm bored" declarations with these 33 fun games.

   From active running games, to splashing water games, to messy games
   that will make you glad you have a hose, these activities will suit a
   wide variety of ages. Most just require simple prep and items you may
   already have around the house.

   Whether you're a mom, dad, babysitter, or camp counselor, these games
   are sure to bring fun to your child's summer!

--
2. Scooter Races

   All you need for this game are some scooter boards and a driveway or
   sidewalk. Let your children race each other while sitting on the
   scooter boards.
--
3. Animal Tag

   Spice up a regular game of tag with Animal Tag. Designate one area to
   be the "cage" where players will be sent if they are tagged. Choose one
   child to be "it"; They will be the zookeeper responsible for tagging
--

   For more of a challenge, create different cage areas for each group. Or
   turn it into a game of freeze tag and let the monkey unfreeze the other
   players by tagging them.

--
   them King, Queen, Jack, and Baby (you could also just label them 1-4).

   Randomly assign children the squares to start. As the game progresses,
   they'll attempt to move into the higher squares. If the "King" is out,
   they either start over at "Baby" or must get in line to wait to get
--
   Bikes are another fun outdoor activity. With trikes, bicycles, and
   adaptive tricycles, most children will have fun riding their bikes
   around the neighborhood. You can add games too. Play "How Slow Can You
   Go" with a piece of chalk. Draw out a straight or wavy line and time
   your kids to see who can go the slowest without stopping or needing to
--
6. Sharks and Minnows

   If you've got a group of kids, this game is a perfect alternative when
   tag starts to get a bit boring. Designate one or more players to be the
   "shark" they will try to tag the minnows. The rest of the players are
--

   Play continues until only one minnow remains untagged, they become the
   new lead shark. This game can also be played in a gym class or in the
   pool.

7. Kick the Can

   All you need for this game is an empty can and a group of participants.
   Place the can in a large open area. Choose one player to be "It" who
   should then count to 50 while the other players hide. Then It tries to
--
   hasn't been tagged can try to "kick the can" to set all of the players
   in jail free. When It has all of the players in jail, they win. Whoever
   was in jail the longest becomes the new It and a new game starts.

8. Opinion Tag
--
9. Sponge Tennis

   For this game, you'll need a balloon and a sponge on a stick. You can
   make your own by using a large sponge, a painter's stick or ruler, and
   tape to wrap around the handle and prevent splinters. Or purchase a
   sponge on a stick for a quicker solution. Children can then bat the
   ball back and forth to play "tennis", add a net to enhance the game. Or
   simply attempt to keep the balloon in the air by working together.

   For extra fun, head outside. Fill a bucket with water and dip the
   sponges into it, then play this game with wet sponges! A scrub brush
   sponge stick is designed to get wet!

--
11. Sponge Tag

   Easy to set up and tons of fun, all you need for this game is a bucket
   of water and a large car wash sponge. Choose one child to be "It". It
   should take the sponge and dunk it in the bucket. Then It chases the
--

   Perfect for cooling down on a hot day, you'll need ice cubes to play
   this game. There are two versions of this game.

   Version 1: Fill a tub with ice cubes and place an empty tub beside it.
--
13. Over Under Sponge Relay

   For this game you'll need two large sponges and two buckets that are
   the same size and two large tubs filled with water. Divide the children
   into two groups and have each group stand in a line. Place the full
--
14. Melt the Ice

   This game requires a bit of prep work. But it can be used with a
   variety of ages and played individually or in a group.

--
   and have plenty of fun

   Looking for fun sprinkler games? Your children can play ring-around-the
   rosy, hokey pokey freeze dance, and more around the sprinkler.

16. Water Balloon Toss

   This game is a lot like an egg toss but the water balloons instead.
   Start by filling several water balloons. Have the children divide into
   pairs and give each pair one water balloon. Have the children start
--
17. Water Limbo

   All you need for this water game is a hose. Have an adult hold the hose
   up high with water streaming out of it. Children can take turns
   limboing under the stream. After each round, the adult should lower the
--

   You may want to put down a cheap plastic throw away tarp for these
   games.

   Egg Roulette: Fill a bowl with several boiled eggs and one raw egg
--
21. Rainbow Tag

   This fun face paint game mixes tag, with capture the flag. You will
   need five tongue depressors, each marked with a color of the rainbow.
   You will also need matching face paint colors. Hide the tongue
--
22. Squirt Gun Painting/Tag

   For these games you'll need squirt guns filled with liquid watercolors.

   Squirt Gun Painting: Set up easels with paper or tack paper to a tree.
--
   remains standing that team wins!

   To extend the game, play the color wars version. Individually or in
   teams, each child tries to get the others to be as colorful as possible
   (if a child is "hit" they aren't out). The child with the most white
--
Even More Games

   parachute game

23. Parachute Games

   Mushroom, Popcorn, Cat and Mouse, and so much more. There are plenty of
   games to play with a parachute!

   Get started with Popcorn. Divide all of the children into two teams and
--
   their ball color left on the parachute at the end wins!

   Find more parachute games to play here!

24. Bean Bag Ladder & Hula Blockers

   For these games you will need bean bag and a ladder or hula hoop.

   Bean Bag Ladder: Set up a ladder and label each step to be worth a
--
26. Giant Games

   Twister: Play a giant game of twister on the yard. You'll need a
   spinner from a regular game of Twister or by creating it yourself. Then
   use four spray paint cans to create a board on the grass and play
   regular Twister. You'll have a fun game to play until the grass is
   mowed.

--
27. Sidewalk Chalk Simon

   Have you ever played the electronic Simon game? Make it interactive and
   physical with this sidewalk chalk game. Create a Simon game board out
   of chalk. Form a circle with sections of color.

--
29. Quarter Bounce

   All you need for this simple game is a quarter and a bouncy ball. Place
   the quarter in the sidewalk crack. Have one child stand on each square
   and bounce the ball attempting to knock the quarter out. The first
--
30. Marbles

   This classic game requires sidewalk chalk, small marbles, and large
   marbles. Use the chalk to draw a three foot diameter circle with a line
   through the center. Each player needs a large marble to use as a
--
   If you don't knock a marble out of the circle, you must leave your
   "shooter" in play. If the other player knocks it out on their turn,
   they win and the game ends. Otherwise you may pick it up again on your
   next turn.

--

   Still looking for more ideas? Teach your child some fun traditional
   games like:
     * Tag
     * Hide-and-Seek
--
     * Various Sports

   What are you waiting for? Choose a game from the list, head outside,
   and start getting active with your kids!

   Ready for more fun outside or indoors? Check out these fun games with
   your kids!
     * Fun Gross Motor Activities for Kids from A to Z
--
   Retrieved from https://bit.ly/3d05nd9
   Top 10 Messy Party Games. (n.d.) Retrieved from https://bit.ly/2Qb28Wr
   Ward, K. (2018). 17 fun outside games kids will love playing. Care.
   Retrieved from https://bit.ly/3aSyQ71
