   Trending
     * Best board games
     * MTG Arena codes
     * Yu-Gi-Oh! Banlist
     * Best Lorcana starter deck

   Dicebreaker Board games. For everyone.

     * News
--
     * How To Guides

Board game types explained: a beginner's guide to tabletop gaming terms

   How to tell your roll-and-writes from your roll-and-moves.
   Settlers of Catan board game gameplay
   Simon Castle avatar
   How To by Simon Castle Contributor
--

   Getting into tabletop gaming as a beginner can be a challenge. From
   knowing the best board games, working out what to buy first and finding
   others interested in playing them with you, through to understanding
   the conversation when you meet these peers, there are all sorts of
--
   Board gaming, as one of humanity's oldest hobbies, can be one of the
   most welcoming activities around. You can start anywhere and with
   crack out a party board game down the pub, learn how to play Magic: The
   Gathering with an established club, or simply enjoy playing around the
   kitchen table with your friends or even all by yourself thanks to the
   growing number of solo games.

   But like everything that a lot of people spend a lot of time on, a
   whole specialist language has built up around board games, not least of
   which is the various genres that tabletop games get grouped into.
   What's a deckbuilder compared to a deck construction game? What makes a
   living card game different to a trading card game, and is that the same
   as an expandable deck game? What do you actually do in a
   worker-placement board game?

   Fear not; to help those of you who haven't yet had a proper chance to
   learn your roll-and-writes from your roll-and-moves, Dicebreaker has
   put together the following beginner's guide to the different types of
   board game types and what they mean.

   Bear in mind that many of these board game types aren't exhaustive or
   exclusive, and many board games will fall into more than one of these
   categories - or might be something else entirely. However, the
   following board game terms represent the most common types of games on
   the tabletop, so they're a good place to start next time you're
   wondering if something really is a Eurogame, or just happens to have a
   farmer on the cover.
   Shobu abstract strategy board game photo Shobu is an example of a
   modern abstract board game. | Image credit: Sarah Jarvis

Board game types

Abstract

   Board games with no theme at all, or what theme is offered is so
   disconnected from the actual experience of playing that it might as
   well not be there. Draughts and Go are the purest examples of
--
Area control

   Board games with some form of map or board defining a space that
   players compete to dominate, usually through adding their own pieces to
   regions or areas or removing opponents' pieces. Sometimes the control
--
Campaign/legacy

   Campaign board games are defined by individual plays following a series
   of connected scenarios, where the actions and outcome of one scenario
   will usually affect the next. Legacy board games are a specific type of
   campaign game where your choices and actions cause you to make
   permanent (often physical) changes to the game and its components, such
   as applying stickers to the board or tearing up cards, often providing
   a one-time experience.
--
   it during play, with more powerful cards being added to the deck and
   less powerful ones removed. Deckbuilders are sometimes conflated with
   deck construction games such as trading card games, with the difference
   being that in deckbuilders the act of creating and customising your
   deck is part of the core gameplay experience, instead of something that
   usually happens away from the table between plays.

--
Deck construction

   A type of board game where the players use different decks of cards to
   play, constructed prior to the game from a large pool of options,
   according to specific rules. There are two main distribution models:
   trading or collectible card games sell booster pack products with a
   randomised set of cards in each, while living card games and expandable
   deck games provide a fixed set of cards in each expansion. (Living card
   game applies specifically to such games produced by Fantasy Flight
   Games, which has trademarked the term.)

--
Dexterity

   Board games involving physical skill, whether using the whole body as
   in Twister or just the fingers for moving things about, as with
   removing blocks in Jenga. This can include flicking discs or other
   objects with your fingers like Flick `em Up, balancing things in games
   such as Beasts of Balance or even throwing objects around, like Dungeon
   Fighter.
--
   selection may be made from a shared central pool of choices, or from a
   hand of cards passed between players. This can be a small part of a
   game, such as selecting an ability for use during a round, or the
   entire decision space for a game.

   Examples: 7 Wonders, Sushi Go!, Villagers.
--
   location, often depicted by a map with a square grid or a page in a
   book, defeating enemies controlled by another player, a companion app
   or the game system itself.

   Examples: Gloomhaven, Mansions of Madness, Star Wars: Imperial Assault,
--
Engine-builder

   Over the course of an engine-building board game, you'll build an
   "engine": something that takes your starting resources and/or actions
   and turns them into more resources, which turn into even more
--
   Examples: Res Arcana, Century: Spice Road, Race for the Galaxy.

Eurogame

   Often shortened to just `Euro', these are strategy-focused board games
   that prioritise limited-randomness over theme. Usually competitive with
   interaction between players through passive competition rather than
   aggressive conflict. Named for the fact many of the early games of this
   style were developed in Europe - particularly Germany - in contrast to
   the more thematic but chance-driven "American-style" games of the time.
   (Sometimes referred to as 'Ameritrash' by those who dislike the high
   luck element.)

   Examples: Agricola, Paladins of the West Kingdom.
   The Quacks of Quedlinburg board game box and components The Quacks of
   Quedlinburg - a game in which pushing your luck leads to victory (or
   everything blowing up in your face).

Push-your-luck

   Board games that invite you to take ever bigger risks to achieve
   increasingly valuable rewards - or to decide to keep what you've got
   before you lose everything. Think the card game blackjack or deciding
   whether to give an uncertain answer on Who Wants to be a Millionaire?
   Sometimes also called press-your-luck.
--
Roll-and-move

   Board games where you roll one or more dice and move that many spaces -
   commonly on a looping track of spaces, or a path with a start and
   finish. Often landing on certain spaces will trigger specific actions
   or offer the player certain gameplay options. Simple as that.

   Examples: Monopoly, The Game of Life, Snakes and Ladders, Formula D.
--
   Roll some dice and decide how to use the outcome, writing it into a
   personal scoring sheet. Each decision impacts your options for the rest
   of the game, so even in games where everyone uses the same dice,
   slightly different choices at the start can lead to very different end
   results. Some games twist the name by replacing the dice with something
   like cards for a `flip-and-write' (Welcome To...) or the writing with
   something like placing miniatures for a `roll-and-build' (Era: Medieval
--
Storytelling

   Board games with a focus on narrative and description that is directed
   or fully created by the players. This could be an overarching story
   lasting the whole game - or across a campaign of multiple sessions -
   read from pre-written passages, or a sequence of vignettes as players
   are tasked with inventing and describing something prompted by a single
--
Worker-placement

   Board games where you choose actions from spaces on the board by
   assigning your pool of "workers" - often thematically actual workers in
   your employ - to them. Usually Eurogames, with player interaction
   created because actions one player has taken often can't be taken by or
   come with a cost for anyone else.
--
   Examples: Charterstone, Agricola, Caverna, Lords of Waterdeep.

Wargame

   Players pit armies against each other, represented by collections of
--
   Examples: Warhammer 40,000, Memoir `44, Risk, Axis & Allies.

   Dicebreaker is the home for friendly board game lovers

   We welcome board gamers of all levels, so sign in and join our
   community!
   Sign in with Google Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Twitter Sign in
--

   Related topics
   Beginner Board Games Eurogame
   About the Author
   Simon Castle avatar
--
     *

   Simon has been playing board games since Talisman and its expansions
   filled his bedroom floor as a kid. While his preferred games these days
   are a bit more strategic, some take up even more space. He has
   playtested expansions for Tash-Kalar and Trickerion, and once made the
--
   Dicebreaker

   Board games. For everyone.
   ____________________

--
   ReedPop
     * Digital Foundry
     * Eurogamer
     * GamesIndustry.biz
     * Jelly Deals
