               o Quizzes
               o Games
               o Celebrities
--

     Games

     Family Games

     The Importance Of Rules In Games

The Importance of Rules in Games

   Whether you follow the rules that came with the game or make up your
   own rules, be sure that everyone agrees to them before the game begins.
     * facebook share icon
--

The Importance of Rules in Games

--

   Rules, rules, rules! A game is only as good as its rules, and how well
   we play the game is defined by how well we follow the rules. What is so
   fascinating about many of the games we play today is that there are
   often no instruction books included—yet we somehow know how to play
--
   In this article, we will take a look at why rules are important and how
   they can make playing games more enjoyable. It doesn't matter if you
   follow the rules that the game came with or if you make up your own
   rules; it really just matters that everyone agrees on what the rules
--
   good winner and a good loser, and how you can settle arguments that
   arise in the course of playing your game. By being clear on the rules
   of the game, you're sure to maximize your fun at all times!

--

   When I was a kid, we used to play a schoolyard game called
   Champ—otherwise known as Four Square. It was played in one large
--
   One person is the “Champ” and stands in the Champ's square. How you
   determine who becomes the Champ for the first game is up to the
   players. Here's some ideas for choosing a champ: You can flip a coin,
   pull straws, pick a number from one to ten and have the players guess
   it, or go alphabetically by first initial of first name. In our games,
   the Champ was the Champ until beaten by another player.
--
   someone else takes your place in the square. The object is to get the
   Champ knocked out of the game, so you can move into the Champ's square.
   The Champ always goes first and has certain advantages over the other
--

   The most interesting thing that I remember about this game is that
   there was always at least one kid who knew the rules—and we made up
--
   were passed on to the next group of kids. The rules were always
   announced at the beginning of recess and the game went on through
   recess. Sometimes we'd pick up where we left off the day before—we'd
--

   When you decide to play any game, it's important to establish the rules
   in advance. Most board games come with their own instruction books, so
   that's easy enough. Read the rules aloud and discuss them as you go
   along so everyone knows what to expect when the game begins. There are
   many games that are passed down to us that have no written
   instructions. This book will help clear up the confusion on these
   games, so read on, and then read out loud.

--
   the way to fair play. If you're a frequent player, keep a log of the
   rules handy, and add to this log as you redefine the games with new
   rules.
--
     * Valentine's Games_Featured Entertainment and Activities14
       Valentine's Day Games…
     * 15 Fun Water Games Entertainment and Activities20 Fun Water Games
       to Play…
