
In-Game

--
     * Audio
     * In-Game

--

   graphic showing two video game characters playing soccer to illustrate
   in-game advertising

--

4 Reasons Why You Should Be Advertising in Video Games

--
   Gamers are now nearly synonymous with everyday consumers, and it’s time
   for advertisers to pay attention. Advertising in video games, also
   known as in-game advertising, will help you tap into a growing and
   engaged audience.
--
   This upward trend points to the growing opportunity to reach engaged
   audiences through video game ads. In-game advertising leverages
   programmatic to enable ads to appear in mobile, computer, and video
   games. With blended in-game, ads are seamlessly integrated, so they
   don’t interrupt gameplay.

What Are In-Game Ads

   Blended in-game ads appear on in-game objects such as billboards,
   walls, jerseys, and more during gameplay. The goal of blended in-game
   advertising is to insert ads that get noticed while not interrupting
   the player’s enjoyment of the game.

   They are non-intrusive, highly-viewable and drive high brand recall.
   Blended in-game ads can be delivered through programmatic advertising
   on gaming consoles, mobile devices, or on PCs.

   Blended in-game inventory can be run at scale across impactful
   suppliers and platforms around the world.

What Are Two Common Blended In-Game Ad Units

   The most common formats that are leveraged in a blended in-game ad
   campaign are display and video ads. Let’s break them down:

In-Game Display Ads

--

Blended In-Game Video Ads

--

4 Benefits of Advertising in Video Games

   In-game advertising offers an opportunity to reach a growing and
   diverse audience. But, this isn’t the only benefit of leveraging this
--

2. Leverage in-game ads to build brand awareness.

   In-game advertising helps you reach your target user in a
   non-disruptive, highly-viewable environment. You’re able to connect
--

   Building brand awareness is a valuable benefit of in-game ads because
   it helps you get closer to achieving a range of business objectives and
--

3. Reach influential users who are playing video games.

--

   Advertising in video games enables you to reach influential gaming
   audiences in an emerging industry. And, gamers have spending power;
--

   In-game advertising provides the opportunity to test unique ad formats
   that are exclusive to in-game environments. Plus, you can reach new
   audiences through emerging technologies.
--
   environment in order to maximize exposure and capture the attention of
   users. Creatives should be tailored to an in-game environment, so that
   the messaging fits within an in-game context.

Start Advertising in Video Games

   Are you ready to get into the game? By leveraging in-game advertising,
   you can reap the many benefits of this growing channel. You’ll reach a
--

   Advertising in video games is on the rise, and so now is the time to
   add it to your media mix. Get ahead of the game by testing in-game
   advertising strategies, now!

   Want to run exceptional in-game advertising campaigns? Request a demo
   to learn more about StackAdapt.
   graphic that reads "Download the Programmatic In-Game Advertising
   Playbook"
--

   4 in-game advertising strategies
     * Campaign Tips

4 In-Game Advertising Strategies for Winning Campaigns

--

   a race car on a race track to illustrate in-game advertising
     * Digital Advertising Trends

3 Reasons Why Advertisers Should Be ‘Getting In The Game’

   gif showing a race car moving back and forth on a track, like it would
   in a video game
     * Digital Advertising Trends

Decoding the In-Game Audience

--
     * Programmatic Audio
     * In-Game Advertising
