       University, Singapore, Singapore

   Due to the popularity and advancement of 4G/5G networks, mobile games
   have already currently become profitable tools for major internet
   platforms. These games are even refined to cover almost all age groups
   of the population rather than the young people. Yet in the perception
   of the public, mobile games have always seemed to be associated with
   various derogatory terms such as interfering with learning, addiction,
   and violence. K12 students usually have less self-control capability,
   and they are undoubtedly the biggest advocates of mobile games. This
   paper summarizes the technological development of mobile games from the
   aspects of hardware and software in chronological order. The
   psychological and social problems that mobile games have brought to K12
   students are analyzed from a neutral perspective. At the end of the
   paper, the future development of educational games and current
   limitations of mobile games are also given for the explorations of
   future trends of game-based education. This position paper aims to
   provide the insight of what psychosocial impacts that the current
   mobile games have on the student, and it may also serve as a reference
   for the how the game-based education has been developing according to
   the mobile technology wise.

--

   Due to the popularity of smart terminals and the advancement of 5G
   networks, mobile games are currently the most popular type of games, as
   well as profitable tools for major internet platforms. Mobile games can
   be combined from different levels and content categories, covering
   different, personalities and preferences (Martin et al., 2020). As a
   result mobile games are now refined to cover almost all age groups of
   the population, not just young people. Yet in the perception of the
   public, mobile games have always seemed to be associated with various
   derogatory terms such as interfering with learning, addiction and
   violence.
--
   old) (Kurt et al., 2022). Students in this age group usually have less
   self-control capability, and they are undoubtedly the biggest advocates
   of mobile game. When they play certain games for long periods of time
   their behavior and psychological state will be changed in a subtle way.
   The main issue is that mobile games may contain unhealthy contents such
   as pornography, violence, ignorance, superstition, etc. which
   implicitly affect the formation of the correct value system and the
   healthy development of their body and mind for these K12 students
   (Destyanto et al., 2017). In addition, some young people indulge in
   mobile games due to lack of self-control, which not only result in
   harmful influence on their studies but also induces a series of
   negative social activities and social relationship (Kurt et al., 2022).
--
   The pioneers of communication science, Lazarsfeld and Merton, argued
   that modern mass media have a clear negative function of
   "psychoanesthesia." Some violent mobile games reveal the nature of the
   "psychoanesthesia" function in another textual dimension: they create
   illusions through inexpensive and negative entertainment, thus eating
   away at the social mobility of those young people in an implicit
   cultural way (Kurt et al., 2022). Craig Anderson found that the
   "psychoanesthetic" mechanism of violent mobile games increases the
   physiological arousal of aggressive behavior, cognition, emotions, and
   violent impulses, and reduces pro-social behavior in adolescents
   (Elsherbiny and Al Maamari, 2021; Kurt et al., 2022). Accordingly,
   violent behavior has become the main "product component" of mobile
   games "inflicted" on adolescents. Moreover, its basic social
   manifestations can be summarized in four points: firstly, it creates
   and activates networks of thinking related to violent aggression;
   secondly, it weakens the inhibition process of violence; thirdly, the
   game's violent reward rules allow aggressive behavior to be imitated
   and reinforced in the "mimetic environment;" and fourthly, the binary
   values of right and wrong in games can reduce young people's empathy
   (Elsherbiny and Al Maamari, 2021).

   Mobile games do not only imply a behavior, but also contain a value,
   which might be sometimes anti-social in nature. Violent mobile games on
   the Internet may portray the grandeur, hooliganism, and banditry of
   triad bosses and gangsters, contributing to the psychology of
   adolescent violence. In particular, the propaganda of "materialism" in
   violent online games can easily lead young people to abandon their
   original morals and values, so that the "money first" mentality
   gradually seeps into their minds and leads to a distorted way of
--

   This position paper therefore infer the future development of
   educational games from existing mobile games, and shares some insights
   into the current limitations, and critically analyses the above issues
   from a neutral perspective, discusses the psychological impacts and
   social problems that mobile games may cause for K12 students (Arteaga
   et al., 2012). It also offers the future development of mobile games
   and the limitations of current educational games in order to explore
   future trends in gamified education. This paper can also be considered
   as a reference on how gamified education is evolving in light of mobile
--

   Nowadays, almost everyone who owns a smartphone has been exposed to
   mobile games at one time or another. It may be a mini-game embedded in
   a web page or app, or a large 3D online game like "Arena of Alor" or
   "Player Unknown's Battlegrounds" (De Gloria et al., 2014). These games
   have a huge update from the mobile games of over a decade ago, both in
   scale and in audio and video experience. And most mobile phones now
   have larger screens and touch screens have become the main way to use
   mobile phones, which did not exist on the same level mobile phones in
   10 years ago, which has promoted the development of mobile games
   (Rubino et al., 2015).

   The continuous evolution of cell phone hardware has brought about a
   constant change in the needs of gamers. There was a time when the only
   requirement for gamers was that their phones could run a particular
   game, but now gamers want smoother games, no lag when playing online,
   and even want their phones to be able to turn on the highest picture
   quality of the game (Ma et al., 2019). This means that the hardware
   that provides key performance in the phone and the network environment
   that the phone relies on also needs to evolve to meet the increasingly
   diverse needs of gamers (Wang et al., 2020). Gradually, mobile phones
   and mobile games have worked together to promote growth and form the
   industry shape we see today. In addition to entertainment, mobile games
   also carry part of people's social needs in their daily lives (Yang and
   Gong, 2021).
--
   al., 2019). At the time, most phones only had a black and white screen
   of about 1 inch, and due to system and network capacity limitations,
   only the games built into the phone could be played, such as Snake,
   Tetris, etc (Figure 1). These were indeed interesting, but they were
   just ordinary games to kill the time.
   FIGURE 1
   www.frontiersin.org

   Figure 1. Representative mobile games from 1994 to 2019.

   After 2003, color screen cell phones and PDAs began to occupy the
   consumers' vision, the hardware performance of cell phones began to
   improve, the software and system functions were gradually enriched. At
   the same time, electronic games began to appear on cell phones in
   various forms (Syahrivar et al., 2022). Since Symbian had strict limits
   on the resolution and number of threads for software development, and
   J2ME development had a maximum memory limit, the vast majority of
   mobile games did not exceed 1 MB in size until the new Symbian system
   appeared in 2006, when these restrictions were lifted one by one (de
   Byl, 2014).

   The popularity of color-screened phones allowed game developers to see
   the opportunity, and some very well-known games such as Need for Speed,
   Call of Duty, Command and Conquer, and many others launched dedicated
   mobile versions (Berlo et al., 2020). Many small development teams and
   enthusiasts also developed board games such as chess, Texas hold'em
   into mobile versions. A variety of mobile phone native games began to
   appear at this time, such as "Tower Bloxx" and "Galaxy on Fire" in 2005
   were enjoyable for handheld gamers at the time (Haney, 2017). Around
   2005, when client-side mobile games were just exploding, there were
   already many specialized game makers developing mobile games for
   non-smartphones, but limited by the speed and stability of cell phone
   networks, and they were eagerly anticipating the popularity of 3G and
--

   In 2008, with the birth of iOS and Android, Apple successfully
   pioneered the touch screen cell phone, after the mobile game from the
   constraints of the physical keyboard, such as "Angry Birds," "Plants
   vs. Zombies," "Fruit Ninja," "Temple Run" and a series of new hand
   quickly occupied the market share in 1 year (Vaiopoulou et al., 2021).
   The introduction of Angry Birds made the public realize for the first
   time that the era of mobile games may be coming (Kalogiannakis et al.,
   2022).

   "Angry Birds", developed by Rovio and launched in 2009, is another
   phenomenal product. Throughout the game, gamers only need to do one
   action, which is to press and hold the bird on the slingshot in the
   screen to drag and release (Villasana et al., 2020). Such a simple
   operation overturned the public's inherent impression of how mobile
   games are presented, so Fruit Ninja and Cut the Rope, launched a year
   later, both became star products at the time for their sophisticated
   gameplay design and simple sliding operation (Thomas et al., 2019). Few
   people may know that the first release of the game Doodle Jump in 2009
   was developed for touchscreen phones, and only a year later came a
   version that supported physical button phones. That's because around
   2010, the popularity of large-screen touch phones with smart systems
   made a radical change in the way mobile games were operated (Thomas et
   al., 2019).

   The birth of the iPhone and the resulting trend in the use of touch
   screen created not only revolutionized the user's experience of
   operating cell phones, but also made hand games free from the
   limitations of the physical keyboard, with new operation ways of
--

   Take iOS as an example, App Store is the only (or the main) channel
   value, hand game developers still have the leisure of "slow work, fine
   work," but by the limitation of iPhone ownership, the income of
   developers at this time is much shabbier compared with today (Bagaa et
   al., 2018). For example, in 2011, the highest-grossing handheld game in
   China was "World War II Storm," and its monthly flow was only $800,000
   (Paseka and Schwab, 2020).
--
   Information Technology in 2013, domestic cell phone users officially
   ushered in the 4G era (Karabiyik et al., 2020). In 2014, the real-time
   competitive MOBA hand game "Vainglory" was launched, emphasizing the
   real-time nature of network online, while "Magic Spirit Summoning,"
   "Tower Legend" and other nurturing RPG games, although the gameplay is
   focused on the standalone part, the official will regularly update a
   large amount of game content to keep the game fresh and the passion of
   gamers, so an efficient network becomes very important (Wang et al.,
   2015).

--
   in the 3.5 GHz range, which can theoretically reach a wireless data
   rate of 1 Gbps, greatly increasing wireless data bandwidth and enabling
   mobile games with less hourly delay and faster rate, giving gamers a
   better and faster gaming experience (Zappone et al., 2016). Mobile
   games are a cross-regional, cross-cultural, cross-racial, and
   cross-religious entertainment. It allows gamers to realize the ability
   to be entertained at home, on the subway, and outdoors with gamers
   around the world at any time. These demands reflect the advantages of
   4G LTE and later 4G LTE-A networks, which can provide bandwidth based
--
   demands and transferring data to multiple devices at the same time,
   thus making the mobile network a stronger experience. Whether it's skin
   updates for MOBAs or massive updates for nurturing games, which can be
   downloaded to gamers' phones faster (Buzzi et al., 2012).
   FIGURE 2
   www.frontiersin.org
--

   In 2015, "Arena of Alor" was publicly tested together with "We MOBA"
   and other multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) games, and most
   handheld gamers were brought into the tide of MOBA games (Buzzi et al.,
   2016). These games are not only fast to get started, but also have
   compact gameplay and gorgeous graphics effects, which not only require
   excellent performance of network environment where the handheld gamers
   are located, but also challenge the hardware performance of cell phones
   (Zhang et al., 2017). The complex lighting and particle effects in the
   game make the CPU and GPU in the SoC take a lot of pressure; at this
   time, the modem in the phone can't be idle and needs to coordinate the
   network to cope with transferring the various data that occur in the
   game. Such comprehensive needs have led more cell phone manufacturers
   to start launching products that emphasize cell phone performance and
   networking capabilities (Chiang et al., 2021).

   This trend has prompted more developers to bring a wider variety of
   games with richer titles to the mobile platform. Almost every year,
   several topical titles emerge, such as "Crackdown 3" in 2016, "Monument
   Valley 2" in 2017, and "World in Pictures" and "Florence" in 2018,
   which expose more smartphone users to the "video game" entertainment
   genre (Guo et al., 2019). For most gamers, the connected competitive
   games like 2018's Peaceful Elite handheld, Wild Ride 9: Racing Legends
   and the new Call of Duty Mobile in 2019 are their best choices (Guo et
   al., 2019).
--
   From black and white screen feature phones to large screen touch
   smartphones, not only cell phones have changed over the past 10 years,
   but the way we work, live and play games has changed dramatically. As
   5G technology gets closer to us, mobile games will take on a more
   diverse look with new technology and new hardware, such as 5G cloud
   games will also bring richer game products to more gamers, using 5G's
   high speed and low latency advantages, host and PC games will also
   become possible to load in real time on the mobile side (Habiba and
   Hossain, 2018). This will also bring a different game experience for
   handheld gamers.

   The 4G era has brought about the rise of handheld gaming, which has now
   became an important part of the global gaming landscape, with countless
   numbers of handheld gamers, and the demand for mobile gaming
   performance continues to increase. The advent of the 5G era will change
   the game experience for gamers at this stage, which is limited by
   equipment and network latency (Akbar et al., 2021). Although 5G is
   still in its infancy, it will definitely have a significant impact on
--
   for cloud gaming. Due to the advancement in the network, major mobile
   manufacturers are now launching 5G gaming phones to cater to the market
   and provide a better gaming experience to the gamers. Therefore gaming
   phones have also become one of the selling points for cell phone
   manufacturers.
--
Public Awareness--Negative Content of Mobile Game

   Many elementary school students are addicted to mobile games and cannot
   extricate themselves from games, some of them even steal their parents'
   money to recharge for playing games and play truant. They only think
   about the mobile games all day and all night, and think of all the ways
   to play games, so they are not interested in studying at all and their
   academic performance is in a mess. It seems obvious that the more time
   you spend playing games, the worse your academic performance, and there
   are studies that have found a correlation between time spent on video
   games and students' academic performance (Padilla-Walker et al., 2009).
   But is poor academic performance really the fault of gaming? It is
   important to note that "correlation" does not mean "causation": for
--
   A student who is repeatedly frustrated with his grades, expects
   appreciation and has high expectations of himself, has no outlet for
   his pent-up emotions. But in mobile games he can not only vent his
   stress but also receive a quick reward (Chafouleas et al., 2021). The
   situation of students who are already not excelling in their academic
   performance will get worse because playing games will waste time in
   learning, thus creating a vicious circle (Laws and Millward, 2001),
   i.e., although playing games takes away from our studies, playing games
   may only be one point in the chain, and the reasons that lead us to
   play games are actually more complex.

Why Are Games Addictive but Learning Is Usually NOT?

   Compared with learning, mobile games have distinct advantages that
   games tend to have some measure the progress of participants to some
   extent, meaning that their effort is visible and obvious, whereas
   learning does not (Luder et al., 2020). There is progress in learning,
--
   that "hard work doesn't always lead to progress" (Chen and Gregory,
   2009). The game makes this process visible, turning a large amount into
   many tiny amounts, and it is important to feel that you are improving.

Long-Term and Short-Term Goals

   The tasks set in the game are mostly achievable goals, not too easy and
   not too hard. There is a lot of data analysis behind this degree of
   accuracy (Wang et al., 2020). Increasing participation in games is
   linked to their benefits and results. Not so with learning. The average
   person does not have this analysis; you put a 500-page book in front of
--
Rewards

   The game does such a good job of this. It is clear on the game that for
   everything you achieve, you will be rewarded accordingly and your
   efforts will be recognized. On the other hand, learning, has a great
--
   a novel. But when listening to a lesson, this is simply not possible.
   If we could figure out how humans learn and what motivates people to
   act from the development of games, then apply it beyond games, the
   value it could create is immeasurable, and it would be a
   ground-breaking thing.
--
The Psychosocial Impact of Mobile Games

   In fact, the psychosocial mechanisms behind playing games deserve more
   attention than academic performance. Often the decline in academic
   performance is the most easily observed, but the relationship between
   playing video games and soft aspects such as feelings of loneliness,
   loss, self-esteem, social anxiety and social skills is often
   overlooked. These commonly overlooked factors largely contribute to
   negative events that influence our perceptions of mobile games (Han et
   al., 2009).

--
   2015) have found that people who have low self-esteem in real life, are
   lonely, lack social skills, and are less successful in real life tend
   to spend more time in video games (Winter et al., 2016). In turn,
   playing video games further exacerbates gamers' feelings of loneliness
   and increased dissatisfaction with life (Kowert et al., 2015).
   FIGURE 3
--
   Figure 3. Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs theory.

   A successful mobile game is inevitably appealing because of the high
   sense of achievement that teenagers can feel in the game again. Imagine
   that people who are not respected in real life can be admired for their
   virtual achievements in the game, either through kryptonite (spending
   money to increase combat power) or through their skill in playing the
   game. Even if you don't make it to the top of the leader boards, you
   can still find a presence in a variety of ways. Moreover, in online
   games, without the constraints of real identities and conditions,
   gamers can communicate more flexibly and with less embarrassment of
   being rejected due to real conditions, communication between people is
   easier and gamers can easily build closer relationships through various
   tasks (Caplan et al., 2009).

   These people who are dissatisfied with their real lives can find a
   sense of presence in the game in a variety of ways to escape their
   real-life dissatisfaction (Figure 4). However, after being satisfied in
   the virtual world, when they return to their real life, the gap will be
--
   www.frontiersin.org

   Figure 4. Addiction progress of mobile games and its different stages.

Anti-social Behavior Caused by Mobile Games

   The content of many mobile games is full of fighting and killing,
   gunfire, wild and weird characters, mechanical and rough movements,
   absurd plot and fast rhythm, which have a serious negative impact on
   students' moral and psychological health. Those students who are
   addicted to games are often not calm enough, restless, impulsive,
   indifferent to others, and more violent, bringing certain destabilizing
   factors to the campus, family and society. They are in reality, but
   their minds are in the online world, and they are prone to
   schizophrenia symptoms, and few children who are addicted to mobile
   games are psychologically healthy. Nowadays, anti-social behavior also
   brings much attention to mobile game study. Although video games have
   been designed and developed to entertain (or educate), it has to be
   admitted that many of them contain violent content. According to data
   from Children Now 2001, a non-profit organization concerned with
   children's learning and development, as early as 15 years ago, 89% of
   all games contained violent content, and nearly half of them contained
   severe violence (Bulduklu, 2017).

   Researchers have found that excessive immersion in games with
   antisocial content (violence) can easily lead to addiction and that
   such games have a subtle effect on gamers: they lack empathy and are
   prone to destructive behavior in real life. In fact, for gamers, the
   violent stimuli provided by virtual worlds such as combat are not only
   a stress relief, but also a training exercise that allows them to
   become accustomed to such aggressive emotions and destructive behavior
   in games, which they gradually carry over into real life (Huizenga et
   al., 2009).

   In a study conducted in 2011, Anderson and Bushman surveyed over 4,000
   gamers and found that violent games increased aggressive emotions and
   decreased pro-social behaviour. Both children and adults, men and women
   were deeply affected by this (Foerster et al., 2019). This is not to
   say that violent play necessarily leads to violent behavior. However,
   when we are constantly trained to think about our enemies in games and
   reinforced to react quickly and aggressively to each other's actions,
   we constantly rehearse this script in our minds and feel threatened all
--
   "hostile attribution bias."

   It must be clear here that it is not the video game that causes the
   gamer's antisocial behavior, but the violent content of the video game.
   It is pointless and even counterproductive to make a blanket statement.
   We should advocate for the regulation of the video game market and the
   development of sensible game content, rather than a blanket ban on all
   video games.

Further Actions May Take for Correct Guidance
--

   Most scholars are studying how to make learning more interesting, so
   that students can learn by doing as what the mobile game does. This is
   the dream of our educational researchers, and Dewey's emphasis on
   "learning by doing" does not seem to be working particularly well. In
--
   emotional and attitudinal values (Villasana et al., 2020). This is why
   educational scholars are proposing to implement gamified learning,
   using educational games to achieve gamified learning. Gamified learning
   in a narrow sense generally refers to pure video games, while gamified
   learning in a broad sense includes game mechanics, game element design
   concepts, etc.

   The core educational values of games are mainly acting on the aspects
   of psychology, socialization, and culture. With its effect on play
   motivation, playful thinking, and playfulness (Figure 5), a good mobile
   game does need multiple aspects of knowledge, ability, emotions,
   attitudes and values (Schwab, 2018). Play motivation is the most
   fundamental and operational value, emphasizing the use of play to
   motivate learning. Playful thinking suggests going beyond playful forms
   and emphasizes the design of non-playful learning activities as
   "games." Playfulness is the most meaningful value emphasizing that
   learners approach the process and outcomes of learning with the same
   spirit and attitude as play. The core link between the three aspects is
--
   www.frontiersin.org

   Figure 5. Core educational value of mobile games.

Gamification of Education/Educational Mobile Games
--
   an important issues: distinguishing the age group of the user.
   Gamification of education is more suitable for the K12 age group and
   should generally be in the form of simple games, with the degree of
   gamification decreasing with the age of the user increasing; there will
   be some adults over 18 who prefer educational products in the form of
   large-scale games such as online games, but this may be a niche market
   (Abeele et al., 2017). A light game should be a balance between
   learning and gameplay, it is like a layer of ketchup in the middle of a
   hamburger, it can be a little less, but too much is definitely not. If
   the game is too complex, it will take away from the main focus, the
   child will appear to be learning but spend more time playing, and the
   level of emotional arousal will be too high, which is not the desired
--
   parts of the product and need to be developed into an actionable
   solution, not optional. Otherwise, even the best design will be
   short-lived and will end up like a normal game after its life cycle.
   So, as well as the product team, the operations team is equally
   important (Cha and Seo, 2018). While designing the gamification, don't
--
   with brain science; with artificial intelligence and big data (Quelly
   et al., 2016; Black et al., 2018). If the research is to solve
   students' learning problems through mobile games, it is necessary to
   combine various research results and educational results from game
   design. Experimental research in this area has been conducted and found
   it to be quite effective. Through this experiment, it is found that the
   difficulty in developing this type of game is decided by how it can
   really enhance their learning effectiveness (Calpbinici and Tas Arslan,
   2019).

   Still, games are games, and still there are four major limitation for
   the current development of educational mobile games.:

   o The first major limitation is portability, that is, how what is
   learned in a mobile game transfers to the real world, which exposes the
   Achilles heel of mobile games. The challenges in video games are often
   fictional and have no connection to everyday life, but are rather a
   fantasy. The knowledge and skills that K12 students acquire in games
   such as battling dragons, racing jousts, and Tetris are not meaningful
   to everyday life and therefore not directly transferable.

   o The second major limitation is simplicity. Mobile games simplify
   complex systems to their core and are procedural representations of the
   real world. The world we live in is much more complex and often defies
   the simple logic of the game. This results in learners often losing
   touch with the systems modeled in the game.

   o The third major limitation is that games lack real-life environments.
   Mobile games are not designed to have an effect on the gamer after the
   game is over. The K12 students are too different from the world they
   live in, and the real world is too complex. Even those games that have
   a realistic purpose, so-called serious games or educational games,
   mostly fail in their transfer from the game to the real world. This is
   good news for those who fear that violent games make people violent,
   and bad news for those who think that smart games automatically make
   people smart.

   o The fourth major limitation relates to the above question about the
   environment. K12 students are usually unable to spontaneously establish
   a relationship between what they learn in mobile games and real life.
   They can grasp a great deal of information in mobile games and remember
   it over time, but are unable to recall the simplest historical data in
   the classroom. The link between learning achievements in games and in
   the real world is often overlooked by many K12 students and teachers.

   Games open the door to the transfer of learning experiences, but K12
   students must go through this door themselves. For that matter, the
   role of teaching behavior in the use of mobile games is clearly
   underestimated. Learners need constructive support to draw outcomes
   relevant to their own learning from a rewarding play space. There may
   not be a fundamental difference in the traditional sense of learning,
   but there is a difference in the logical growth and understanding of
   games (Rahim et al., 2020). Besides, the illusory nature of the mobile
   gaming experience makes the transfer of results very difficult. In
   response, external forces are needed to drive attention toward the
--
   content of the learning outcomes, the enhancement of skills and
   knowledge, should be explored together with the K12 students. A bridge
   between the virtual and real worlds is built when all these gamers take
   note of the content and learning outcomes in question. The questions
   that need to be answered on the teaching side are which real-world
   environments can apply what is learned in the game and which aspects of
   the game are worth learning from. And gamers, the K12 students, should
   be motivated to notice this connection and to test what they have
   learned in their everyday lives (Kyriakou and Glentis, 2021).
--
Conclusion

   This paper summarizes the technological development of mobile games
   from the aspects of hardware and software. A neutral perspective is
   given to analyze the psychological and social problems that mobile
   games have brought to K12 students. At the end of the paper, the
   insights of the future development of educational games and current
   limitations of mobile games are also addressed. The major task for the
   development is to reflect on the content of the mobile game, which is
   not directly accessible. It is difficult to examine what is learned
   with a critical eye during play and must therefore be stimulated
--

   Mobile games and design requirements to increase teenagers' physical
   activity. Pervasive Mob. Comput. 8, 900-908. doi:
   10.1016/j.pmcj.2012.08.002
--

   Bagaa, M., Taleb, T., Laghrissi, A., Ksentini, A., and Flinck, H.
   (2018). Coalitional game for the creation of efficient virtual core
   network slices in 5g mobile systems. IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun. 36,
   469-484. doi: 10.1109/jsac.2018.2815398
--

   Bavelier, D., Green, C., Han, D., Renshaw, P., Merzenich, M., and
   Gentile, D. (2011). Brains on video games. Nat. Rev. Neurosci. 12,
   763-768. doi: 10.1038/nrn3135

--
   Berlo, Z., van Reijmersdal, E., and Rozendaal, E. (2020). Adolescents
   and handheld advertising: the roles of brand familiarity and smartphone
   attachment in the processing of mobile advergames. J. Cust. Behav. 19,
   438-449. doi: 10.1002/cb.1822

--
   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Bulduklu, Y. (2017). Mobile games on the basis of uses and
   gratifications approach: a comparison of the mobile game habits of
   university and high school students. Convergence (London, England) 25,
   901-917. doi: 10.1177/1354856517748159
--

   Buzzi, S., Colavolpe, G., Saturnino, D., and Zappone, A. (2012).
   Potential games for energy-efficient power control and subcarrier
   allocation in uplink multicell ofdma systems. IEEE J. Sel. Top. Signal
   Process. 6, 89-103. doi: 10.1109/jstsp.2011.2177069
--
   Cha, S., and Seo, B. (2018). Smartphone use and smartphone addiction in
   middle school students in Korea: prevalence, social networking service,
   and game use. Health Psychol. Open 5:205510291875504. doi:
   10.1177/2055102918755046

--
   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   De Gloria, A., Bellotti, F., and Berta, R. (2014). Serious games for
   education and training. Int. J. Serious Games 1. doi:
   10.17083/ijsg.v1i1.11
--

   Destyanto, A., Putri, O., and Hidayatno, A. (2017). Serious simulation
   game development for energy transition education using integrated
   framework game design. IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 94:012157.
   doi: 10.1088/1755-1315/94/1/012157

--

   Gentile, D., Lynch, P., Linder, J., and Walsh, D. (2004). The effects
   of violent video game habits on adolescent hostility, aggressive
   behaviors, and school performance. J. Adolesc. 27, 5-22. doi:
   10.1016/j.adolescence.2003.10.002
--

   Ghosh, S., De, D., Deb, P., and Mukherjee, A. (2018). 5G-ZOOM-Game:
   small cell zooming using weighted majority cooperative game for energy
   efficient 5G mobile network. Wirel. Netw. 26, 349-372. doi:
   10.1007/s11276-018-1818-9
--
   Guo, C., Gong, C., Guo, J., Xu, H., and Zhang, L. (2019).
   TCQG--software-defined transmission control scheme in 5g networks from
   queuing game perspective. Sensors 19:4170. doi: 10.3390/s19194170

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar
--

   Han, D., Lee, Y., Na, C., Ahn, J., Chung, U., Daniels, M., et al.
   (2009). The effect of methylphenidate on Internet video game play in
   children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Compr.
   Psychiatry 50, 251-256. doi: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2008.08.011
--

   Huizenga, J., Admiraal, W., Akkerman, S., and Dam, G. (2009). Mobile
   game-based learning in secondary education: engagement, motivation and
   learning in a mobile city game. J. Comput. Assist. Learn. 25, 332-344.
   doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2729.2009.00316.x

--
   Karabiyik, T., Jaiswal, A., Thomas, P., and Magana, J. (2020).
   Understanding the interactions between the scrum master and the
   development team: a game-theoretic approach. Mathematics 8:1553. doi:
   10.3390/math8091553

--

   Kowert, R., Vogelgesang, J., Festl, R., and Quandt, T. (2015).
   Psychosocial causes and consequences of online video game play. Comput.
   Hum. Behav. 45, 51-58. doi: 10.1016/j.chb.2014.11.074

--
   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Kyriakou, G., and Glentis, A. (2021). Skin in the game:
   video-game-related cutaneous pathologies in adolescents. Int. J.
   Pediatr. Adolesc. Med. 8, 68-75. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpam.2019.09.002

--

   Padilla-Walker, L., Nelson, L., Carroll, J., and Jensen, A. (2009).
   More than a just a game: video game and internet use during emerging
   adulthood. J. Youth Adolesc. 39, 103-113. doi:
   10.1007/s10964-008-9390-8
--

   Rubino, I., Barberis, C., Xhembulla, J., and Malnati, G. (2015).
   Integrating a location-based mobile game in the museum visit. J.
   Comput. Cult. Herit. 8, 1-18. doi: 10.1145/2724723

--
   Google Scholar

   Seo, Y., Dolan, R., and Buchanan-Oliver, M. (2019). Playing games:
   advancing research on online and mobile gaming consumption. Internet
   Res. 29, 289-292. doi: 10.1108/intr-04-2019-542
--

   play in freemium mobile games: a compensatory mechanism. Int. J. Retail
   Distrib. Manag. 50, 117-134. doi: 10.1108/ijrdm-09-2020-0358

--
   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Wang, L., Wang, Y., Ding, Z., and Wang, X. (2015). Cell selection game
   for densely-deployed sensor and mobile devices in 5g networks
   integrating heterogeneous cells and the internet of things. Sensors 15,
--

   Winter, J., Wentzel, M., and Ahluwalia, S. (2016). Chairs!: a mobile
   game for organic chemistry students to learn the ring flip of
   cyclohexane. J. Chem. Edu. 93, 1657-1659. doi:
   10.1021/acs.jchemed.5b00872
--

   Yang, Q., and Gong, X. (2021). The engagement-addiction dilemma: an
   empirical evaluation of mobile user interface and mobile game
   affordance. Internet Res. 31, 1745-1768. doi: 10.1108/intr-11-2020-0622

--
   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Keywords: psychosocial impacts, mobile game, K12 student, future
   development, educational mobile games

   Citation: Li Y, Xu Z, Hao Y, Xiao P and Liu J (2022) Psychosocial
