43 Gaming Companies You Need to Know

   From pick-up-and-play casual mobile games to geocache hunting to
   bleeding-edge virtual reality, these innovative upstarts and trusted
   veterans are why video gaming continues to lap all entertainment
--
   In, he was a digital editor at the design-focused Sixtysix Magazine and
   associate editor at Chicagoist.
   back-of-head shot of person wearing headphones and playing video games
   Image: Shutterstock

--
   In the letter to shareholders heard `round the entertainment world,
   Netflix famously admitted that it competes with -- and loses to -- the
   popular video game Fortnite more than HBO. And while the gargantuan
   success of that Epic Games blockbuster surely remains an outlier, the
   subtext is unmistakable: In the knock-down, drag-out competition for
--
   busting.

   The global video game market is projected to see more than $365 billion
   in revenue for 2023, which is up from almost $320 billion in 2022,
   according to data from Statista. The gaming industry owes some of that
--
   capture cameras and play in "holodecks," which put groups of users
   together into immersive social experiences. For example, Sandbox VR's
   Squid Game Virtuals experience lets customers compete in games inspired
   by the popular Netflix series.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsSandbox VR is Hiring | View 0 Jobs
--
   Location: Novato, California

   2K makes interactive games for mobile, computer and console play. Its
   2K Sports division includes titles like the NBA 2K series, while its 2K
   Play division releases titles like Lego 2K Drive. The company operates
   a testing lab where users known as "playtesters" can play new and
   existing games and offer feedback to the development teams.
   They're Hiring | View 4 Jobs2K is Hiring | View 4 Jobs

--

   Intercept Games is a gaming development studio that leans toward space,
   simulation and strategy-based games. Its current major project is the
   Kerbal Space Program 2 video game, which uses immersive audio content
   to simulate a rocket launch -- and it's so realistic that some NASA
   staff have used the program to run experiments.
--
   Location: Chicago, Illinois

   Iron Galaxy Studios' portfolio of video games includes more than 60
   different titles, with projects that have been available to play on
   platforms including PlayStation, Xbox, Oculus and Nintendo Switch. In
--
   Location: San Francisco, California

   Volley creates voice-controlled games that can be played using an
   Amazon Alexa or Google Home smart speaker. Its offerings include
   well-known titles like The Price Is Right, Jeopardy, Wheel of Fortune
--
   Location: Los Angeles, California

   Not quite a video game company, but a gaming company nonetheless,
   Exploding Kittens is the maker of the card game with which it shares a
   name and describes as a "kitty powered version of Russian Roulette."
   More than 11 million Exploding Kittens games have been sold, and other
   popular products from the company include the pinball-esque A Game of
   Cat & Mouth, the word-guessing game Poetry for Neanderthals and the
   word-shouting board game Really Loud Librarians.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsExploding Kittens is Hiring | View 0 Jobs

--
   Location: Redmond, Washington

   Nintendo is known both for its games and gaming consoles. With roots
   dating as far back as the late 1800s, the company first debuted its
   famous characters Mario and Donkey Kong nearly 100 years later in the
   1980s. There are now thousands of titles users can play on Nintendo
   Switch, including popular Nintendo published games like Animal
   Crossing: New Horizons, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and The Legend of Zelda:
   Breath of the Wild.
--
   Founded in the 1980s, Ubisoft is the company behind popular gaming
   franchises like Assassin's Creed, Far Cry, Rabbids and Just Dance.
   Ubisoft is one of the world's largest independent video game
   publishers, and many of its games are available across platforms
   including PlayStation, Xbox, PC and Nintendo Switch. The company's
   areas of technological expertise include artificial intelligence and
--
   Location: Paris, France

   Gameloft has 190 games in its portfolio with 1.5 million downloads
   completed daily. For two decades, the company has been developing games
   for mobile, PC and gaming consoles. Gameloft is known for titles like
   The Oregon Trail and Dragon Mania Legends.
--
   It's not a gaming company per se, but few outfits are as inextricable
   from the gaming landscape as streaming platform Twitch. The go-to
   broadcasting choice for the e-sports community and other gamers, the
   video platform-meets-social community was acquired by Amazon in 2014
   and (per the company) attracts more than 10 million monthly visitors.
--
   Location: Sherman Oaks, California

   Mythical Games is a team of veteran game and platform developers
   working together to bring groundbreaking new ideas to market and
   enhance the gameplay experience. The company is dedicated to playing a
   part in creating an integrated secondary market built on true ownership
   of digital assets to bring players, developers and content creators
--
   Location: Irvine, California

   MobilityWare specializes in developing tremendously replayable games
   for mobile devices and Facebook. The company's impressive roster of
   games includes Solitaire, Spider Solitaire, Jigsaw Puzzle and Video
   Poker, providing users with hours of entertainment without any learning
   curve.
--
   Location: Bellevue, Washington

   Bungie is the game company best known for creating blockbuster
   science-fiction franchises Halo and Destiny. Founded in Chicago in
   1991, Bungie was acquired by Microsoft in 2000 and blazed new trails
--
   Bungie spun out of Microsoft in 2007 but continued work on the Halo
   franchise up to the launch of 2010's Halo: Reach. The company launched
   the first game in its current flagship franchise, Destiny, in 2014.
   Bungie was acquired by Sony Interactive Entertainment in 2022.
   They're Hiring | View 9 JobsBungie is Hiring | View 9 Jobs
--
   Holding some of the most prime IP this side of Marvel in its portfolio
   has proven a sound business strategy for this major entertainment
   company. The game division of Warner Bros. Entertainment, a brand under
   the Warner Bros. Discovery umbrella, operates hit franchises like
   Mortal Kombat, which is headed up by Chicago-based subsidiary
--
   Location: Seattle, Washington

   DoubleDown Interactive makes social versions of classic casino games --
   everything from blackjack and slots to poker and roulette -- for social
   and mobile platforms. The company started out with the launch of a
   social casino game on Facebook in 2010, and by 2015, was among the
   top-performing games in the Apple App Store.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsDoubleDown Interactive LLC is Hiring | View
   0 Jobs
--
   One of the industry's true powerhouses, EA is proof that quality and
   quantity need not be mutually exclusive. The EA Sports division is
   responsible for some of the most iconic sports-games franchises,
   including FIFA, Madden NFL and NBA Live. EA's classic non-sports series
   range from The Sims to Medal of Honor, and its Mobile subsidiary does a
--
   Location: Culver City, California

   Jam City has produced game adaptations of massively popular tentpole
   franchises, including Harry Potter and Marvel Avengers titles. They
   also inked a multi-year deal with Disney to develop games. The
   developer -- which counts the creators of MySpace and a former 20th
   Century Fox executive among its co-founders -- has proven to be a major
--

   Play Q is an on-the-rise mobile gaming developer. The company
   rioritizes easy-to-grasp gameplay, colorful graphics, fit-for-all-ages
   narratives and just-so degrees of familiarity -- think puzzles and
   platforms.
--

   Co-founded by music industry veterans, IllFonic has grown into a
   leading indie game developer, making its name on tactical titles like
   Armored Warfare and horror survival games like Friday the 13th: The
   Game. The company takes strides to maintain an independent spirit even
   as it continues to grow, and it carefully plans projects with an eye
--

   Nexon has been in the gaming industry for more than 20 years and has
   produced dozens of massively multiplayer online role-playing games that
   are available to users in more than 190 countries. The company's games
   can be played on Windows, Xbox, PlayStation and mobile.
   They're Hiring | View 8 JobsNexon is Hiring | View 8 Jobs
--
   Location: Westminster, Colorado

   Deck Nine Games is an independent video game development company that
   focuses on creating games that feature narrative storytelling. The
   company's titles include graphic adventures Life Is Strange: Before the
   Storm and Life Is Strange: True Colors.
--
   Asia. That includes news, updates and additional information for the
   brand's many video games, from Pokemon GO on mobile to Pokemon Snap for
--
   Location: New York, New York

   Private Division is a game publishing company that advocates for small
   game developers, providing them with opportunities to successfully
   launch games commercially and globally. Some titles published by
   Private Division include Hades from Supergiant Games, OlliOlli World
   from Roll7 and Disintegration from V1 Interactive.
--
   Wisconsin, which isn't particularly known for its gaming industry, was
   a conscious choice -- one that comes with notable cost-of-living and
   community perks. As for its game portfolio, highlights include
   Heretic/Hexen and Soldier of Fortune. It has also notably lent
   assistance to fellow Activision partners Treyarch and Infinity Ward on
--

   pioneer was already getting gamers outside and GPS-scavenging for
   treasure. Geocaching has also nurtured a robust network of forums,
   events and even environmental outreach, encouraging responsible play
--
   Location: San Francisco, California

   Zynga has produced many of the most popular social mobile games of all
   time, with titles including Words With Friends, Farmville and Tiny
   Royale. The company's games have been played by over 1 billion users,
   leading to offices opening throughout the United States, Canada, the
   United Kingdom and India.
--
   Location: Seattle, Washington

   Famous in the casual games market, PopCap made its mark with the
   once-ubiquitous tile-matching Bejeweled series -- which, according to
   its makers, once racked up a sale every 4.3 seconds and has sold in
--
   worlds so intricate that they necessitated the creation of a
   "loremaster" job role. Bethesda Softworks has expanded into just about
   every other genre since then, including sports games, strategy games,
   shooters and beyond.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsBethesda Softworks is Hiring | View 0 Jobs
--
   Valve catapulted to acclaim and popularity with its very first title,
   the first-person shooter turning point Half-Life. The company also runs
   Steam -- one of the largest game stores for PC and Mac -- and has
   launched several hardware products including the Valve Index VR
   platform and Steam Deck, a popular Linux-based gaming handheld. The
   team's early VR breakthroughs infamously helped prompt Mark Zuckerberg
   to buy into the VR game
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsValve Corporation is Hiring | View 0 Jobs

--
   Location: Richardson, Texas

   Even the most casual gamers are likely familiar with legacy id titles
   like Wolfenstein 3D (perhaps the ne plus ultra of RPG), DOOM (which
   helped usher in the modern multiplayer model) and QUAKE--all of which
   revolutionized what a PC game could be. The company also pioneered the
   shareware distribution model.
   They're Hiring | View 0 Jobsid Software is Hiring | View 0 Jobs
--
   in point: the God of War series, which has earned hundreds of Game of
   the Year awards; and the internally produced documentary Raising
   Kratos, about the tolls of game development.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsSanta Monica Studios is Hiring | View 0
   Jobs
--
   Location: Austin, Texas

   Devolver Digital seeks out and shines a light on games from all over
   the planet, usually ones with a firmly offbeat sensibility. Examples
   range from a Swedish-made "violent ballet about friendship,
--


thatgamecompany

   View Profile
--
   Location: Santa Monica, California

   Thatgamecompany's video game offerings -- Sky, Journey, Flower and Flow
   -- focus on "meaningful emotional impact" and "human connection." Over
   the years, its games have been featured in exhibits at the Smithsonian
   American Art Museum and MoMA.
   They're Hiring | View 0 Jobsthatgamecompany is Hiring | View 0 Jobs
   Margo Steines, Rose Velazquez and Andreas Rekdal contributed reporting
   to this story.
