   Games

25 best video games to help you socialise while self-isolating

   If the coronavirus means you’re facing weeks stuck at home, blasting
--

   In this time of quarantine and isolation, we all need to keep up both
   our social interactions and our spirits. Playing video games with
   friends online is the perfect solution. You don’t have to be good at
   them, that’s not the point – online games provide a location to meet
   up, chat and have experiences together that may or may not involve
   blowing stuff up.

   Here is a range of titles that can be learned and enjoyed by both
   complete beginners and veteran gamers. Whether you have an old laptop
   or the latest smartphone, there’s something here you can play with pals
   even if they’re far away.

Console games – Keith Stuart

   The Xbox One and PlayStation 4 are excellent machines for playing with
--
   to pay a fee of around £45 a year for access) and they both have very
   intuitive “Party Chat” functions which let you talk to your friends via
   a gaming headset while playing – in fact you can chat between games
   too, or even while watching Netflix on your console. Things are a bit
   more complicated on Nintendo Switch which requires you to download a
   mobile phone app in order to chat with friends, but even then only a
   minority of games support the feature. So all our recommendations are
   primarily based on Xbox and PlayStation.

   Minecraft
   (PC, PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, smartphone)
   The most popular video game in the world allows groups of eight players
   to meet online, explore vast blocky worlds and construct amazing
   buildings together. Think of it as a cross between a Lego set and a
   fantasy adventure. You and your friends could collaborate on a project
   – such as building a scale model of the Taj Mahal – or play one of the
   competitive mini-games. It’ll keep you occupied for months.

   Fortnite: Battle Royale
--
   missions together, all taking on different roles – just like an
   interactive crime movie. At least one of you will need to have played
   the game before and reached the appropriate skill level, but playing
   with a mostly amateur and unfamiliar crew offers hours of knockabout
   slapstick fun. For a more sedate experience, Read Dead Online does
--
   (PC, PS4, Xbox One)
   Okay, the title is pretty grim, but this four-player cooperative
   survival game is strangely endearing. The idea is to survive in a
   hostile world as long as possible, gathering natural resources in order
   to make fires, cook food and craft weapons to fight off the extremely
--
   which of your friends you can rely on in a life-or-death situation.

Mobile games – Stuart Dredge

   The paradox of “mobile gaming” is that much of it happens when people
   aren’t mobile at all: they’re sitting on the sofa, lying in bed or
   (caveat: not recommended) perched on the loo. Most of these games will
   run happily on a recent (say, from the last three or four years) iPhone
   or Android smartphone, although a couple of them – Sociable Soccer and
--
   Words With Friends Classic
   (iOS/Android)
   One of the oldest mobile games still being actively supported – it was
   first released in 2009 – Words With Friends could be a marvellous tonic
   for anyone in self-isolation. You can have a bunch of its turn-based
   Scrabble-like matches going on at once, including in-game chat – and if
   your real-life friends aren’t playing, it’ll match you up with
   strangers.
--
   Clash Royale
   (iOS/Android)
   Now four years old, this is one of the games I’ve tended to play
   heavily for a while, then drop out of for a year before firing it up
   again, and spending a week getting royally duffed up while I get to
--
   strategic battles remains magic. But also because its clans system,
   where you can band together with friends for friendly matches and
   card-swapping, is one of the better mobile-game recreations of
   real-world networks.

   Pokémon Go
   (iOS/Android)
   Wait a second! A game that involves walking lots outside, at a time
   when we may soon be encouraged to stay inside? Stay with me. Developer
   Niantic is making some changes designed to make the game fun to play
   even if you’re stuck at home. More beasties will be spawning around
   you, and incense packs (which attract more of them) will be
--
   Sociable Soccer
   (iOS)
   You can guess a football-loving gamer’s age by whether they go
   misty-eyed at the mention of Sensible Soccer. Some of the team behind
   that series are back together for Sociable Soccer, an Apple Arcade
   exclusive. It’s more than just an homage to Sensi’s wonderful
   pinball-esque gameplay either: there’s an inventive card-based
   team-building system and a meaty 60-hour campaign mode to keep anyone
   busy. Plus there’s a new online multiplayer option, which right now is
--
   (iOS/Android)
   Something I gravitated towards for this particular roundup was mobile
   games that do more than simply let you play against other people
   online. The latest in Gameloft’s Asphalt racing series is a good
   example: it has a “club” feature where you can create your own driving
--
   Kahoot!
   (iOS/Android)
   This isn’t a traditional game: it’s a website (and apps) for playing,
   creating and sharing multiple-choice trivia quizzes about… well, about
   pretty much any topic you can think of. Designed to be used by schools
--
   tools.

PC games – Jordan Erica Webber

   If you don’t usually play many computer games, an easy way to get
   started is to download the hugely popular platform Steam, but you can
   also buy and download games straight to your computer from online
   stores such as GOG.com (which has a great collection of classics as
   well as more modern games) and itch.io (which specialises in games from
   independent creators). You can also use the free voice chat app Discord
   to talk to each other as you play and its screen share feature allows
--
   Stardew Valley
   Windows/Mac (Steam/GOG)
   A soothing game that’ll keep you occupied for dozens of hours. You and
   up to three others run a farm in a small village, carrying out tasks
   together or alone. Activities range from planting crops and caring for
--
   Tick Tock: A Tale for Two
   Windows/Mac (Steam/itch.io)
   To make the best of a bad situation, try a game that is better when
   you’re not in the same place. In Tick Tock: A Tale for Two, you and the
   other player see different versions of the game’s mystical world and
   must communicate effectively to solve the puzzles.

--
   Ticket to Ride
   Windows/Mac (Steam/itch.io)
   Board game nights are not easily replaced, but we can try. Tabletop
   Simulator is software that lets you play virtual board games online,
   but if you want to keep it simple then grab a copy of Ticket to Ride,
   the classic in which you compete to connect cities by rail.
--
   Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes
   Windows/Mac (Steam)
   To make your separation part of the game, try Keep Talking and Nobody
   Explodes, in which one of you has to defuse a bomb and one has the
   manual, but neither of you can see what the other can. It’s frantic,
--
     * Xbox One
     * Nintendo Switch
     * Online multiplayer games
     * Minecraft
     * features
