   By Elizabeth M H Newbury, V Quidore & Ethan Hwang on February 22, 2023

   How can serious games be used to contribute to the Year of Open
   Science?
   Serious Games Initiative
--
   Broadening engagement is one way of opening up science, and researchers
   have been turning to unique technology to facilitate that type of
   engagement: games. As a medium, digital games have wide use; the
   Entertainment Software Association estimates that in 2022, over 215
   million people in the United States played video games regularly.
   Research institutions have used games to not only reach new audiences
   but also speed up scientific research and make scientific discoveries,
   particularly within the field of medical science. As agencies and
   experts look to a Year of Open Science, learning from these
   examples--and looking to the future potentials of games supporting
   research--can help level up efforts.

Educational Games for Leading Research Questions

   To understand how an agency can use games, let's look at two ways of
   implementing games. First, institutions can develop a new game that is
   framed around a particular research question. Games can visualize data
   outside the lab, affording not only educational opportunities but
--
   Institute at the National Institutes of Health put on a series in a
   virtual conference called DataViz+Cancer that highlights some key
   considerations in using games-and other types of visualizations-in
   research. Two prominent examples illustrate this approach: Foldit and
   Eyewire. Both projects rely on crowd-sourcing data through a game to
   help accelerate research.

--
   Adobe, Boehringer Ingelheim, RosettaCommons)

   Foldit is a free-to-play puzzle game that challenges players to fold
   proteins. In doing so, players contribute to a dataset to help bring
   solutions to diseases like COVID-19, HIV, Alzheimers, and more. It is
   often the example by which game-based crowdsourcing projects measure
   themselves, in part due to its success: in less than three weeks in
   2011, participants solved the structure of an HIV-related protein that
--
   neuroscientists understand the mechanisms underlying motion perception.

   These games illustrate that for crowdsourcing, data needs to be not
   only fun for users to engage with, but also easily digestible and
   distributed. Importantly, the tasks are manageable. The games break
   down an overall research question into small, bite-sized problem sets
   with a finite task and focused data sets. Breaking down the data and
--
   massive participation.

   But what makes it a game is the employment of play-and competition-that
   everyone from researchers to science educators appreciate. In both
   instances the data becomes a "puzzle" for players to solve that are
--
   These mechanics not only motivate individuals, but in creating these
   forms of visible competition go one step further in developing a sense
   of community around the game that is so vital to long-term
   participation.

Commercial Game Companies Collaborating with Research Institutions

   In addition to creating their own game, there is a growing interest in
   how researchers can also work with commercial game companies to engage
   existing audiences. An example of this is the collaboration around EVE
   Online. EVE Online is a massive multiplayer online roleplaying game
   that is perhaps best known for corporate espionage and heistsin a
   space-themed environment.According to a report from GamesBeat in 2021,
   it boasts a unique user base of 25 million globally with approximately
   300,000-400,000 players concurrently. It is a commercial game that has
   opened its doors to crowdsourcing scientific research through themed
   content embedded in the game itself under a mini-game called "Project
   Discovery."

--
   The original EVE Online launched in 2003 as a space-based MMO, while
   Project Discovery, the citizen science project, originally launched as
   a mini-game within the game in 2016. Partners for the latest project,
   focusing on support for COVID-19, included McGill University, BD,
   Beckman Coulter, FlowJo, BC Cancer, Massively Multiplayer Online
--
   Protein Atlas (HPA), which aims to map proteins within human cells by
   cataloging different cell structures in over 250,000 images. In a
   recent version of the mini-game, players mapped flow cytometry by
   creating polygons around cells to help scientists understand immune
   response to COVID-19. By crowdsourcing this within EVE Online, as
--

   There are a few things that were attributed to this success. First,
   while an innovative mini-game, "Project Discovery" fits within the
   overall feel of the game, with mechanics similar to other in-game
   tasks. But this mini-game also hits home on a nuanced way of
   understanding player motivation: it isn't just about in-game rewards.
   In the same report from IGN, EVE Online Creative Director, Bergur
   Finnbogason pointed out three primary player types: those playing for
   in-game rewards, those playing because they were already deeply
   invested in EVE Online, and those playing for science.

   While a qualitative observation, studies have time and again
   demonstrated that motivation for game players is varied. Those wishing
   to capitalize on games as a way to build out scientific research should
   consider multiple ways of incentivizing participation. While in-game
   rewards most certainly help, some players will be motivated because it
   affords them an opportunity to deepen their engagement with the game
   and its story; others because it allows them to explore something new,
   like a fresh mechanic; and still others because it connects them to a
--
What's Next?

   These examples highlight ways that games have fostered the acceleration
   of scientific research while also expanding the scope of contributors
   to that research. In the case of Foldit and Eyewire, researchers
   leveraged game elements to make science more engaging and build a
   community that has made real-world impacts. In the case of EVE Online,
   an already popular game title was used to crowdsource data for health
   research. In both cases the research teams distributed the data to not
   only make it more adaptable for broad use, but transform it into a
   playful experience through puzzles and game mechanics. The key is to
   recognize both the broad possibilities of games and the diverse
   motivations and objectives of their players. Just like with any other
   medium, people play video games for a variety of reasons that can be
   tapped into to increase scientific engagement. Some gamers value points
   and in-game rewards while others seek opportunities to explore new
   horizons in the game or deepen their play. Some prefer supporting a
   broader community, while others relish competition. What's also
   important to know is that, at least in these cases, they can also
--
   External link
   Serious Games
   Marketplace: At the Federal Games Guild, video games and public policy
   play together
   STIP2
--
   External link
   Science and Technology
   Playing Global Order : Can video games reinforce good behaviours
   towards a better world?
   Wilson Center
