
   The best legit money making apps can provide you with extra money you
   would not have otherwise just for takings surveys or playing games
   online.

   The web’s #1 top app for taking surveys, watching videos, and playing
   games for cash online is Swagbucks. It’s a well-built platform that is
   well-reviewed, and widely available for Android, iOS, and through your
   internet browser.
--

     * Best app for fast money: Swagbucks
     * Best variety of games & surveys: InboxDollars
     * Best for shopping rewards: Capital One Shopping
     * See more apps; read about the competition
--

   Swagbucks is perhaps the web’s no. 1 venue for taking surveys, watching
   videos, and playing games for cash online. The platform is well-built,
   well-reviewed, and available for Android, iOS, and through your
   internet browser.
--
     * Where to play: Android, iOS, and swagbucks.com
     * Typical payout: ~$2–$3 per hour.
     * Cost to play: Free (most games)
     * Payout method: Gift cards via email, cash via PayPal

   Upon arriving at Swagbucks’ games hub, you’ll notice that some games
   offer cash and some offer cash back. It’s worth clarifying that if you
   play popular games like Trivial Pursuit and Bejeweled 2 through
   Swagbucks you won’t get paid, but SB will offer you a small rebate for
   cash you spend inside the games.

   In the second category, Swagbucks will actually pay you in cash or gift
   cards to play certain games. Some are recognizable, like Forge of
   Empires and Final Fantasy XV: A New Empire. Since you’re effectively
   playtesting these games for developers, Swagbucks will pay you the
   equivalent of ~$2 per hour in points, which can be redeemed once you
   earn around $5 for a gift card or money into your PayPal account.

   Swagbucks’ competitive advantage is the variety of non-game activities.
   As you accumulate points towards your next payout threshold, you can
   take a break from games and watch videos, take surveys, and more.

   » Sign Up for Swagbucks.
--

   InboxDollars is a money making app offering surveys, videos, and of
   course, games as ways to earn a few cents to a few bucks per hour, all
   on your own schedule.
   InboxDollars InboxDollars
--
   InboxDollars is a free app that offers a variety of ways to make money
   fast including surveys that pay between $0.50 and $5, earning cash back
   for playing games. You can even get paid for receiving and reading
   certain emails.
   Offer: Get an instant $5 Welcome Bonus for registering today!
--

   Create Free Account
     * Pros: Variety of games
     * Cons: Average earnings
     * Where to play: Android and inboxdollars.com
--
   Available as a site and Android app (the iOS app is for surveys only),
   InboxDollars makes up for below-average payout amounts with a sheer
   variety of games to play. Their extensive library includes classics
   like solitaire, mahjong, and sudoku, but also new mobile games in need
   of testing.

   If you’re already addicted to simple browser and mobile games like the
   ones listed above, InboxDollars might be a no-brainer. You won’t make a
   ton of money by only playing for an hour or two a day, but it adds up
   fast.

   Plus, if you tire of games, you can also switch over to watching videos
   or survey-taking as ways to accumulate InboxDollars on your way to
   their $30 minimum threshold. It’ll take a while, but at least you’ll
--
Mistplay

   Mistplay pays you to play new Android games and provides developers
   with feedback based upon your experience. Each 2- to 10-minute gaming
   session can reward the cash equivalent of $0.66.
--
   Mistplay pays out a little above average, and I admire the platform for
   being both developer- and user-friendly. First, to benefit developers
   who test their games through Mistplay, the app accelerates cash
   earnings the longer you test a game, so you’re incentivized to play
   longer and provide better feedback to its creators. Second, Mistplay
   offers users a feature called the “Mix” whereby it’ll generate a
--
   (puzzle, platforming, action, etc.).

   In total, Mistplay is a great place for gamers to test new games and
   help out developers while earning a trickle of cash for their efforts.
   As far as games-for-cash sites go, Mistplay seems among the most
   wholesome and well-intentioned.

   » Sign Up for Mistplay.

   We investigated around three dozen popular games-for-cash sites. These
   don’t make our top picks but still stood out as great options to
   consider.
--
   you make a deposit into your Long Game account, whether automatic or
   manual, Long Game will reward you for saving by giving you coins that
   you can use to play games.
     * Pros: Can incentivize more saving, potential jackpots can offset
       lower APY
--

   Long Game might be a good fit if the lure of getting more coins to play
   games incentivizes you to save more in the long run.

   » Sign Up for Long Game.
--

   Honorable mention to some other great free apps out there that may
   branch out the realm of earning with surveys and games. These include
   Survey Junkie, Ibotta, Fiverr, Upwork, and OfferUp. They’re worth
   checking out.
--
Givling

   Givling was the last games-for-cash site to be ejected from my final
   list. It wasn’t easy, because I cheered for Givling. I wanted the app
   to be as good as it sounded.
--
   the queue every two weeks gets the jackpot.

   You can rise up the queue by watching ads and playing games, but also
   by buying products from Givling’s sponsors and simply handing the app
   money.
--
Tip

Most games-for-cash sites are a waste of time at best and can fleece you out of
thousands at worst. If you’re really interested in experimenting with this type
of website, you’ll find safer havens in the options that I’ve highlighted.
--

   To create this list I investigated about three dozen of the most
   popular games-for-cash sites and apps. I graded each using a rubric
   combining multiple factors:
     * Legitimacy — Is the app what it claims to be, or is it stealing
--
     * Cash payout — Do users report actually receiving cash or free gift
       cards from the app?
     * Variety and quality of games — Quite simply, are the games fun and
       varied?

   To my surprise, even some of the most popular games-for-cash apps
   failed stupendously in two of the most critical metrics: user reviews
   and cash payout.

   Many games-for-cash apps have glowing App Store reviews that are
   clearly fake and paid for. This really bothers me, because it means
   that rather than listen to their critical user feedback, developers
--
   doesn’t care and neither should you.

   Next, some of the more popular games-for-cash apps have developed an
   insidious scheme whereby they cut off earnings just short of their
   payout threshold. For example, one app has a $10 minimum payout amount,
--
   These apps for are people looking to make extra income and earn rewards
   by completing activities they would have anyway while earning cashback
   or branching out with surveys and games. They’re not for people looking
   to generate life-changing amounts of money.

--
   Anyways, despite having the less interesting name of the two, Coin Pop
   for Android is one quirky gaming app. On the surface it’s pretty
   standard stuff: play games, reach “levels,” convert level bonuses to
   cash.

--
   First, once you register, Coin Pop will ask your age and gender so it
   can offer you a preselected list of what it thinks are age- and
   gender-specific games (Coin Pop isn’t gunning for Politically Correct
   App of the Year).

   Then, Coin Pop will prompt you to download games you’d like to play
   individually. This can take up some serious space on your hard drive,
   and since the ROI on certain games tends to drop off a cliff after a
   few sessions, you’re encouraged to keep downloading new games
   constantly and sucking up your data.

--
   subjectively think they’re a waste of time.

Why do game apps let you play for money?

   When you play games through apps like Swagbucks, Mistplay, or
   InboxDollars, they’re paying you because you’re watching ads or testing
   games for their clients, the developers.

   In essence, you’re every child’s dream: a paid video game tester. Even
   if you’re not directly providing feedback via surveys, the developers
   are collecting background data like how long it took you to complete a
   certain quest, where you got lost, which items you used, etc. This is
   incredibly valuable data to mobile game developers, especially since
   they’re competing to make the most playable and addictive game
   possible.

How much money can you make playing games online?

   Payouts from games-for-cash sites and apps can range from a few cents
   per hour to an entire $50,000 jackpot.

   On average, you can consistently make around $2 per hour playing games
   online.

   Overall, games-for-cash sites aren’t much of an income generator, so I
   don’t recommend that you play them for the money. Instead, play them
   for fun and enjoy the trickle of cash as a side bonus.
--

   In some cases, these sites may redirect you to third-party apps or
   games. If so, follow these tips to protect your personal information,
   and don’t hesitate to back out if you feel uncomfortable:
     * Add your phone number to the Do Not Call Registry
--
Summary: Best apps to make money fast

   “Play games for cash” sounds too good to be true, and it mostly is. The
   majority of games-for-cash sites are junk, luring users in with fake
   review scores and teasing them with cash payouts that will never come.
