     * (BUTTON) More

   The best card games to play with a standard deck | CBC Life Loaded
   Culture

The best card games to play with a standard deck

   This list will have you suggesting card night every chance you get!
--
Social Sharing

   [card-games.jpg]
   (Credit: iStock/Getty Images)

   Card games have entertained people for centuries and have always been a
   great way to pass time. They're social, portable and inexpensive
   (unless you're gambling with money), and the rules are easy to learn.
   For me, card games were integral to my childhood: I grew up playing
   cards with my parents and three siblings. I was six years old when I
   played my first card in a game of Crazy Eights, and I've dealt
   countless hands since then.

   I'm passionate about a wide variety of games, whether they be board,
   tabletop or card games, and the ones listed here are what I've played
   most often and that bring back the best memories. If you decide to play
   them, I hope they serve you similarly well. They range from the
--
   52-card deck.

Card games for 2 people

   Most multiplayer card games can be scaled up or down to accommodate
   more or fewer players and the games mentioned here are no exception.
   There are variations for three people, but they're at their best when
   you play with just two.
--
   500 Rummy

   This is one of my favourite games because it doesn't take long to play;
   the rules are simple; and there's the dramatic possibility of starting
   out badly, but ultimately winning the game, and vice versa. It belongs
   to the rummy family of card games, which involve grouping cards
   together in certain sequences and sets. The objective is to be the
   first player to score 500 points.
--
   of the same suit (e.g. 10, jack, queen of spades).

   The game is played in rounds, which end when one player has no cards
   left in their hand. The catch is if you still have cards in your hand
   at the end of the round, the value of those cards is deducted from your
--
   Even if you've never played cribbage before, you might know it involves
   a board to keep score. I love the board because it's such an iconic
   part of the game, but you don't have to have one to play. There have
   been times when I haven't had a board nearby, and I've kept score with
   pen and paper.
--
   either total), earned by forming groups of two or more cards of the
   same value, runs, and card combinations that add up to 15. The running
   total can't exceed 31 during play. It's a quirky game with three phases
   in which you can score points, but it's not nearly as complicated as it
   sounds.
--

   Cribbage is the perfect balance of strategy and luck. With the discard
   rule at the start of the game, you have to determine your strategy
   before you know whether you'll be able to execute it. There is also a
   random card which is turned face up and which both players may count as
--

   These beloved classics are often played long into the night and are
   staples of veteran card tables. These games have endured particularly
   well because they're among the most social of card games and have
   become a part of pop culture through films, television and gaming.

--

   Popular in parts of Canada -- especially Ontario -- euchre is a
   trick-taking game for four people on two teams (though there are
   variations for between two and eight players). For a card game that
   forbids table talk, it's a surprisingly social game. The better you
   know your partner, the better your chances of winning. Trust in your
   partner is vital and as important as strategy.
--
   at the table or bluffing your way to victory with a lower-ranking hand
   and persuading other players to fold. Depending on whether you're
   playing at home or in a casino, the game can be as serious or as casual
   as you like.

--
   Hearts

   Like euchre, hearts is a trick-taking game. However, the objective is
   to take the fewest number of tricks and avoid scoring points. For this
   reason, it is known as a game of evasion. Three or more players may
   gather round a table for hearts, but it's most often played with four
   people.
--
   queen of spades scoring 13 points. It's a common strategy to lead with
   a low-ranking spade after the first trick to draw the queen out. The
   game ends when one player scores 100 points or more. All players tally
   up their points, and the person with the fewest wins.

--
   How to play hearts

The best games to play as a family

   Card games are a great way to support your kids' arithmetic and
   strategy skills -- but fun comes first. Many are suitable for children,
   but don't think that adults can't enjoy them too. Try some of these as
--
   mischief. I might be part of the generation who learned it first
   through the gaming site Neopets.com, but I have played my fair share of
   offline Cheat too. It's a highly satisfying game because there's
   nothing like knowing another player is cheating because you have the
   cards they claim to have.
--
   Fan Tan

   This is a game that my family used to close out card game night because
   it inherently reorders the deck and leaves it ready to be shuffled
   again for the next game night. It's straightforward: the objective is
   to get rid of all the cards in your hand by playing them in sequence.

--
    99

   This game is fast-paced and requires quick mental addition. Certain
   cards have designated values and actions, which can be written down on
   a cheat sheet for reference.
--
   other players struggle, and you can reverse the direction of play to
   save yourself when needed. It's best to save your smaller value cards
   and special cards until the end stages of the game so you have them
   when you need them.

   Children will enjoy the speed of the game and creating strategies to
   stay afloat when the value of the pile is high.

--
Personal recommendations

   All of the above games have a special place in my heart, but here are a
   couple you might not have heard of. I have fond memories of playing
   these with friends, family and strangers alike.
--
   Rummoli

   Rummoli, aka Tripoli, is a Canadian game that is part board game and
   part poker. It's a delight and my favourite game for a large group of
   people. It's light on strategy and heavy on fun.

   An ideal group for Rummoli is four to six players, but it can be played
   with as few as two and as many as eight. The more players there are,
   the faster the game goes.

   Ideally, you'd play with a Rummoli board, but if you don't have one,
   you can just mark designated spaces on a large piece of paper where
   players can place their chips. These areas correspond to different
   cards or sequences in the second phase of the game. Each player puts a
   chip on each space on the board. There's also a pot which goes to the
   winner of the poker phase. That phase is a traditional hand of poker;
   whoever has the highest-ranking hand wins.

   After the poker game, people play their cards in sequence. The twist is
   there's a "ghost" hand dealt, and cards from this hand cannot be
   played. There's a chance you won't be able to complete a sequence
--
   Spite and Malice

   I learned this game while I was on holiday in 2018. It's designed for
   two players, but can be played with more. (I learned a four-player
   version.) If you like to meddle with your opponents' strategy as much
   as trying to win for yourself, this is the game for you.

   The objective of the game is get rid of all the cards in your "payoff
   pile" by playing them on stacks in the centre of the table. The card on
   top of each player's payoff pile is always turned face up, so you know
--
   It can be gratifying to watch an opponent end their turn because it's
   their only possible move. Spite and Malice is one of the more strategic
   games listed here. It's a lot of fun; just be sure not to ruin any
   friendships while you're on your quest to win.

--

   Sebastian Yue is a Toronto-based writer, model, voice actor and player
   of many games. They are the author of Lake of Secrets, an adventure for
   Dungeons & Dragons (5th Edition), and they contributed two stories to
   the Chilling Tales from the Whispering Wind anthology. Sebastian has
   been playing card games since they were six years old. Follow them on
   Twitter here.

Related Stories

     * Just roll with it: How to move your in-person tabletop game online
     * The beginner's guide to the greatest pastimes: Cribbage
     * The beginner's guide to the greatest pastimes: Euchre
