40+ Great Card Games For All Occasions

     * games, playing cards
     * December 10, 2018
     * Will Roya
--
   Holding them, feeling their embossed texture, and appreciating the
   intricate designs adds to the experience. Moreover, these decks are not
   just for admiration; they come alive when used for card games,
   cardistry, or magic tricks.

--

   But one of the best methods to enjoy these decks is by playing card
   games. Not only do you get the pleasure of using them, but others also
   get the chance to admire and enjoy their design. During game breaks,
   players can also appreciate the detailed artwork, which enhances the
   overall experience.

   Now, what games to play? While many are familiar with a few standard
   card games, there's a vast world of card games yet to be explored. Over
   the years, despite my extensive collection of modern games, I've found
   myself drawn to traditional card games, especially when I have a custom
   deck at hand.

   Here's a compilation of my top traditional card games, sorted
   alphabetically, and categorized for adults or children. At the end,
   I've listed books and resources on card games that I personally
   recommend. Each game's description includes its ideal player count.
   Notably, many of these games are perfect for just two participants.

   This list primarily focuses on traditional card games that have stood
   the test of time. While some recent games are mentioned, the primary
   goal is to highlight games that use a standard deck, rather than modern
   adaptations. Of course, there are countless other games playable with a
   standard deck; this list represents the most well-known and those I've
   personally enjoyed or recognize as classics.

   I hope this inspires you to explore beyond the usual and dive into some
   classic card games. Trust me, the journey is rewarding with many
   fantastic games awaiting discovery. For easy access to game rules, each
   game listed is linked to Pagat.com, an authoritative source for card
   game guidelines.
   People playing cards

Social and Family Games

   This category is somewhat arbitrary in that some of the card games in
   the other categories can also be enjoyed socially or with children, and
   the games in this category are certainly not just for children. But if
   I was looking for a fun and lighter game that is easy to learn and
   play, these are all excellent choices.
   Blitz (2-12 players) - A popular and casual/social card game, also
   known as "Scat", "Thirty-One", "Ride the Bus", and "Blitz". By drawing
   and discarding a card each turn, the aim is to try to improve your
   three card hand to have the closest to 31 points in one suit.
   Cheat (3-13 players) - Also called "I Doubt It" or "Bullsh**", this is
   a game many children have played. The aim is to be the first to get rid
   of all your cards, and you can bluff about what cards you are playing
   on a turn, but if you get challenged and caught out you have to pick up
   the entire pile.
   Egyptian Ratscrew (2-6 players) - This is a quick-slapping game that is
   like Slap Jack on steroids, and has been published commercially under
   the name Slamwich.
--
   be the first to play all your cards.

   Golf (2-6 players) - A great casual game for two players that also
   works with 3 or more. There are many variations, the most common one
   being six card Golf, where everyone has a 3x2 grid of cards worth
--
   goal is to get the lowest score possible over nine holes or hands.

   GOPS (2 players) - A simple and quick bidding/bluffing game for two
   players. The Diamonds are point cards corresponding to their value, and
   revealed one at a time in random order. Players each get an entire suit
--
   simplified version of Whist, where the aim is to avoid elimination
   after each hand by winning at least one trick. The first hand has seven
   tricks, and it becomes harder to stay in the game because each
   successive hand has one less trick. A perfect game to introduce people
   to trick-taking.
   Mao (2-7 players) - This game has especially been popular in college
   and university crowds since the 1960s, and the aim is not just to win
   but to have fun. Essentially it is a Crazy Eights variant with special
   additions, but the rules may not be discussed; new players are expected
   to try to figure out the rules by observing a game and by trial and
   error. Theoretically there are overtones of Mornington Crescent,
   Fizzbin, and Calvinball, but Mao is actually a playable game.
   Palace (2-6 players) - Also called "Sh**head", "Karma" or "Idiot". A
   very light casual game, where the aim is to avoid being last to get rid
   of your cards. Players each have a row of three face down cards, a row
   of three face up cards covering these, and a hand of three cards. On
--
   President (3-16 players) - Classically known as "Chairman," "Scum," or
   "A**hole", and fun for groups, this is an easy introduction to the
   family of climbing games. The aim is to get rid of cards as soon as
   possible, and you must play at least as many cards as the previous
   player, but with higher values. Depending on the order in which players
   go out, a new hierarchy of players is established. A variation of this
   was published commercially as The Great Dalmuti. For more advanced
   climbing games, see Big Two later on this list.
   Ranter-Go-Round (3-12 players) - This is also known as "Screw Your
   Neighbor",  "Chase The Ace" or "Cuckoo", with slight variations. A
   simple game of passing cards around, with a high luck element, the
   player with the lowest card at the end loses a chip, and the aim is to
   avoid being eliminated by losing your chips.
   Rummy (2-6 players) - A classic card game, in which players draw and
   discard cards, trying to get "melds" that typically consist of sets of
   the same values or runs of consecutive values. Many variants exist,
   including Gin Rummy, which is an excellent game and appears later on
   this list, as well as some commercially published games like
   the Mystery Rummy series. Contract Rummy (3-5 players) also developed
   from Rummy, and adds the complication that in each round players have
--
   runs, that they must have before they can meld. A version of Contract
   Rummy was published commercially under the name Phase Ten.
   Scopa (2-6 players) - A fascinating classic Italian card game that is
   especially good for two players, and for four players as a partnership
   game called Scopone. Players are using cards in their hand to "capture"
   point-scoring cards from a common pool, with captured cards matching or
   adding up to the value of the card played from hand. Also recommended
--
   Scopa is Casino, which has gives some added options for play, and
   appears later on this list.
   Speed (2-4 players) - Also called "Spit", this a high speed game
   similar in style to Nertz (see later on this list), but slightly easier
   and more suitable for children. The aim is to be the first to get rid
   of all your cards by simultaneously and quickly playing cards of higher
   or lower value to a common stock.
   Spoons (2-8 players) - A hilarious game for kids or large groups, also
   known as "Pig" or "Donkey". Players have four cards and simultaneously
   pass a card to the left, trying to get a set of four matching cards, at
--
Trick-Taking Games

   Trick taking games are one of the most common types of card games, and
   classics like Hearts and Spades are good examples. It is a game where
   players all have a hand of cards, and game-play revolves around a
   series of "tricks", in which each trick involves everyone playing one
   card from their hand, with the trick typically going to the person who
   played the highest card. If you have never played a trick-taking game
   before, I suggest you start with Knock Out Whist, which was listed in
   the previous category, and is an excellent and fun way to get
   introduced to this style of game.
   500 (4 players) - The national card game of Australia. A skilful
   trick-taking game where players bid for the number of tricks they think
   their partnership can win. The winning bidder is allowed to exchange
   several cards, and select the trump. There is much to love: the
--
   originated in France, was very popular in the early 20th century, and
   has some similarities to the two player version of the American
   game Pinochle.
   Bridge (4 players) - The ultimate classic among trick-taking card
   games. It is played in partnerships, and gives much room for much
   skilful play. Contract Bridge is often played in organized club
   settings, and the bidding and game-play has an extensive series of
   conventions that can take some time to learn in order to play well.
   Briscola (2-6 players) - An Italian trick-taking game that is quite
   easy to learn and play especially as a two player game. Using just 40
   cards, the aim is play tricks from your hand of three in order to win
   point scoring cards. Apparently this is especially good with the five
   player Briscola Chiamata variant.
   Euchre (4 players) - Extremely popular as a social game in parts of
   Canada and the USA, Euchre can especially be fun when played in a
   casual tournament setting. Just 25 cards are used, with the Jacks being
   powerful "bowers". One partnership is trying to win the most tricks
   from a five card hand, with trump determined by a turned up
   card. Ecarte (2 players) is an excellent trick-taking game that is very
   similar to Euchre, but better suited for a two player game.
   German Whist (2 players) - An excellent Whist style game for two
   players. Each player has a hand of 13 cards, and the first phase
   involves each person playing a card in order to compete for the face up
--
   card. When the stock is gone, you play out your remaining 13 cards, and
   the player winning the most tricks is the winner.
   Hearts (3-7 players) - One of the all time classic trick-taking games,
   where the aim is to avoid taking tricks with Hearts, since these are
   minus points, while the Queen of Spades is a whopping 13 minus points.
   There is no trump suit.
   Jass (2-4 players) - The national Swiss game, playable with two players
   or in partnerships. This is part of the Jass family which originated in
   the Netherlands. The wider family
--
   to Bezique and Pinochle.
   Le Truc (2 players) - This out-of-the-ordinary
   betting/bluffing/trick-taking game is a 19th century French game using
   a 32 card deck, and was especially popularized after inclusion in Sid
   Sackson's Gamut of Games. A brilliant bluffing game where you use a
   hand of three cards to play only three tricks, but can increase the
   value of a hand throughout the game, to bluff and cause your opponent
   to fold. Be aware of some rule variations. Both the French Le Truc and
   the Spanish Truc (which has 2 player partnerships) are derived from the
   older English game Put (2 players), which is a simpler two player
   bluffing game that I can also recommend.
   Ninety-Nine (3 players) - This original game by David Parlett is
   regarded as one of the very best trick-taking games for exactly 3
   players. Only 36 cards are used, and from a hand of 12 players lay
   aside three cards that represent the number of their bid, and play out
--
   Oh Hell (3-7 players) - This goes under many names, including Up and
   Down the River, Bust, Estimation, and some less savoury titles that are
   variations on Oh ****. A great trick taking game where you bid how many
   tricks you can win, while the hand size increases or decreases each
   round. The game enables considerable skill, because even with bad cards
   you score if you bid correctly. Numerous scoring variants exist, one
   being published commercially under the name Wizard.
   Pinochle (4 players) - A popular and classic American trick-taking game
   for partnerships that uses an 80 card deck. Gameplay starts with an
   auction in which players bid how many points their team will win, with
--
   hand (melds). A two-player variant of Pinochle using a single-deck also
   exists.
   Piquet (2 players) - This classic game has a very long history going
   back several centuries. It is demanding since it has some old-fashioned
   complications, but is still popular, and regarded as one of the
   all-time best and most skilful card games for just two players.
   Pitch (4 players) - Derived from the old English game All Fours, this
   game has especially been popular in parts of the USA, and there are
   many variations. Typically played in partnerships, it begins with a
   bidding round after players each are dealt six cards, and bid for many
--
   hand: High trump, trick with low trump, trick with Jack of trumps, and
   highest total point value.
   Rook (4 players) - Rook is a terrific partnership trick taking game
   with bidding that was even published commercially under that name with
   a special deck. The aim is to win tricks with point cards (e.g. the
--
   the name 200 (in French: Deux Cents).
   Schnapsen (2 players) - Popular in many parts of Europe, Schnapsen is
   the national card game of Austria, and is a classic trick-taking card
   game for two players with a long history, and allows for genuinely
   skilful and clever play. Played with a small deck, one of its
   peculiarities is how points are scored for "marriages" (King-Queen
--
   closely related Sixty Six, and common Schnapsen rule variations,
   see here and here.
   Skat (3 players) - This classic trick-taking game is the national card
   game of Germany. It features complex scoring and bidding, but is one of
   the best card games for three players. A similar game with simpler
   bidding and scoring rules is Schafkopf, which was been Americanized and
   popularized by immigrants to the USA as Sheepshead. Also related is the
   demanding Doppelkopf (i.e. Double Sheepshead).
   Spades (4 players) - One of the better trick taking games for
   partnerships, and another classic after being invented and popularized
   in the USA in the 1930s. Spades are always the trumps, and players bid
   how many tricks they think they will win in advance. Although the
   bidding and scoring is not the easiest if you are new to trick-taking
   games, it is a game that allows for more skill than casual games like
   euchre.
   Whist (4 players) - A simple but classic trick-taking card game from
   which many others are derived. Played in partnerships, there is no
   trump, and teams try to win the most tricks as they play out a full
--
Non Trick-Taking Games

   Trick taking games are arguably one of the most popular and common
   types of card games, which is why they were listed as a separate
   category. But there are certainly a large number of other fantastic
   card games as well. Most of the games listed in the "Social and Family
   Games" category were also non tricking-taking games, but the games
   listed below tend to be a little more thoughtful and involved.
   Big Two (4 players) - Best with four players (although variants for 2-3
   players exist), this along with President (which appears earlier on
   this list) represents one of the more accessible and well-known
   climbing games. With the climbing genre, the idea is to be the first
   player to get rid of all your cards, playing cards individually or in
   special combinations. For a slightly easier climbing game than Big Two,
   consider Tien Len, which is the national card game of Vietnam. One of
   the most popular climbing games of all times is Tichu, which was
   published commercially with a special deck.
   Canasta (4 players) - A game that became extremely popular in the
   1950s, Canasta uses two standard decks, and is best in two-player
   partnerships. It is a rummy style of game in which the aim is to make
   melds of seven cards of the same value, and "go out" by playing your
   entire hand. There are also several variants, such as the popular Hand
   and Foot.
   Casino (2-4 players) - This classic card game is a "fishing" game that
   has some parallels to the simpler Scopa (see earlier on this list), and
   the Anglo-American version is especially popular. Players capture
--
   the crib, and which order to play the cards in hand. Even children will
   enjoy finding the point scoring combinations, while the
   imbalance/asymmetry of each game turn makes it especially interesting.
   Eleusis (4-8 players) - A modern card game simulating scientific
   research, as players ("scientists") conduct experiments to determine
   the rule governing play. Players try to get rid of cards by discarding
--
   by deducing it from legal plays.
   Gin Rummy (2 players) - Derived from Rummy (see earlier on this list),
   Gin Rummy is a "knocking game" that differs from Rummy in that melds
   are kept in hand until the end of a deal. It is an excellent and
   time-tested two player game.
   Nertz (2-6 players) - Also known as "Racing Demon" or "Pounce", Nertz
   is a competitive multi-player solitaire that is played in real time.
   The aim is to be the first to get rid of cards from your Nertz piles by
   building upwards on common foundations. It is basically the same game
   as the commercially available Ligretto/Dutch Blitz, but played with a
   standard deck.
   Poker (2-10 players) - This is considered the ultimate bluffing game,
   and No Limit Texas Hold 'Em has been popularized with the help of
   television and local tournaments. Players "bet" chips on whether or not
   they have the best five card poker hand. Many say it is only fun when
   played for money, suggesting that the thrill is in the gambling rather
   than the game-play. Even if you do not play for money, you do have to
   approach the game semi-seriously for it to be fun, otherwise it is too
   easy for someone to play foolishly and hand another player the game. A
   must for those who enjoy bluffing.
   Spite & Malice (2-5 players) - Also known as "Cat & Mouse", this is a
   competitive patience/solitaire game for two or more players that uses
   two decks, and is better known to most people under its commercially
   produced variation, Skip-Bo. Unlike Speed and Nertz, it is not played
   simultaneously in real time, because players take turns, but the
   overall concept is somewhat similar.
   Zetema (2 players) - This is an obscure Victorian card game that
   revived in popularity as a result of Sid Sackson's A Gamut of Games.
   David Parlett recommends it as an out-of-the-ordinary card game that is
   "long and savory". It is played with a 65-card deck (52 cards plus an
   additional two through Ace in one suit), and each player's objective is
--

   So where should you start? Hopefully some of the descriptions I have
   provided will intrigue you enough to give a particular game a shot, or
   look into it further. But often games will depend on who you are
   playing with, the number of players you have, and the kind of game you
   are looking for. So to help you branch out beyond the repertoire that
   you might already be familiar with, here are some recommendations for
   games that I especially suggest for different situations.
   Are you looking for...
   - a game for just two players? GOPS and Scopa are two simpler games
   that are quite rewarding. If you want a trick-taking game for just two,
   then Briscola and German Whist are both straight forward and good
   choices, while Le Truc is fantastic for those who like bluffing,
--
   play. Cribbage and Gin Rummy are two non trick-taking classics that are
   every bit as good today as they have always been.
   - a game for four-players in partnerships? There are several good
   trick-taking games to choose from in this category, and while the
   ever-popular Bridge is good, the learning curve can be steep. I
   recommend starting with a simpler game like Euchre or Whist, or else
   something that involves more skill, like 500, Rook, or Spades, which
   incorporate the fun of bidding and give opportunity for a winning
   bidder to strengthen their hand.
   - a trick-taking game for an odd number of players? Ninety-Nine is the
   best trick-taker that plays with exactly three players. Hearts and Oh
   Hell can both handle various player counts, and are very good; if you
   enjoy bidding for how many tricks you think you will win then Oh Hell
   is an absolute must.
   - a light social game for a larger group? Try the classic climbing
   game President, the almost brainless Ranter-Go-Round, or the frenzy
   of Spoons, all of which are easy to learn and don not require too much
   brain power. Blitz and Cheat are also good choices for fun social games
   that can work with more than four players.
   - a game that is fast-paced? Try the craziness of two
   player Speed/Spit, or else ramp up the difficulty slightly with the
   frantic game-play of the popular Nertz, both of which have simultaneous
   real-time game-play. Egyptian Ratscrew also requires quick reactions
   and speed.
   - a game that is unusual and out-of-the-ordinary? Try the logical
   deduction required by the clever and inventive Eleusis, or the long and
   savoury gameplay of Zetema.
   - a game for older children? Most of the games in the "Social and
   Family Games" category will work, but fun games that I have had good
   success with in playing with children include Cheat, Fan Tan, Knock Out
   Whist (which also serves as a good introduction to
   trick-taking), Palace, Speed, and Spoons. If they can handle the
   scoring system, Scopa is definitely a rewarding game that older
   children can enjoy, and the partnership game Scopone is particularly
   good. GOPS produces an excellent head-to-head battle-of-wits for just
   two, and so does Golf.
   - a game for younger children? There's a number of classic and very
   simple games not included on this list, such as Beggar My
   Neighbour (2-3 players), Crazy Eights (2-7 players), Go Fish (2-6
   players), Old Maid (2-12 players), Slap Jack (2-8 players), Snap (2-4
   players), and War (2 players). Be aware that some games like Beggar My
   Neighbour and also War involve no decisions and are a matter of pure
   luck!
--

   But what about if you have nobody to play with? The good news is that
   there is a wide range of excellent solitaire card games, a category
   sometimes referred to with the catch-all "Patience". Patience or
   Solitaire games are especially popular due to the fact that many of
   them come pre-installed on personal computer operating systems. Some
   solitaire games come down to pure luck, but there are many excellent
   ones that require genuine skill, and can be a very rewarding challenge
   to play.
   Rules: Fortunately you can learn many solitaire games with the help of
   free apps, or the many websites that offer these games to play for
   free. You will find lots of resources online that will teach you rules
   for different games, and a good place to begin is the Wikipedia page
   which lists solitaire games. Also check Polymorphic Solitaire, Pretty
   Good Solitaire, and Solitaire Network, which all have extensive lists
   of solitaire games, rules for each, and free online play.
   Recommendations: There are different types of solitaire games, and here
   are some of the better and more popular ones I can recommend, grouped
   according to different categories:
--
   Scorpion, Spider, Yukon
   Other types: Aces Up, Calculation
   Thematic: I also highly recommend Bowling Solitaire by genius game
   designer Sid Sackson. It is entirely unlike all the other solitaire
   games mentioned, but is an incredibly thematic and clever game.
   Apps: There are some fantastic apps available for free which have a
   wide range of solitaire games. Of the ones I have tried, I can
   especially recommend Full Deck Solitaire (by GRL Games), Solebon
   Solitaire (by Solebon LLC), and Solitaire City (by Digital Smoke LLC).
--

   This article should get you well on your way to playing some fun card
   games. But if you are interested in exploring the world of card games
   further, there is certainly a lot more you can do. So here are some
   ideas for further expanding your horizons, learning more about the
   great card games that are out there, and even options for playing them
   when you have nobody else around to play with.
   Get a book: There are some fantastic books with rules to all the
   classic card games. You will need some way to learn how to play a new
   game, and resolve those inevitable rules arguments that might arise.
   Having a reliable book is something you can take with you when you are
   on the go. Here are two of the best:
--
   Penguin Encyclopedia of Card Games, this book by David Parlett is
   easily the most comprehensive book in the English language with
   standard card games. If you are looking to discover new games, or find
   rules to lots of different games, this is the best book to get.
   ● Hoyle's Rules of Games - An authoritative and standard text on
   classic card games. I personally own the Third Revised edition (Philip
   D. Morehead), and have used it often, although it is not as exhaustive
   as David Parlett's book, so it can happen that the card game of your
   choice is not included. But the section on card games is very useful,
   especially the contents pages which categorizes the games by
   suitability for adults/children and by number of players; plus it has
   rules to other classic games as well. This book and a deck of playing
   cards is all you need to take along on a vacation!
   Check online resources: There are some terrific resources online about
   traditional card games. Pagat.com is easily the most authoritative and
   best when it comes to rules, but there are certainly other places that
   are helpful as well. Suggestions to get you started:
   ● Pagat.com - John McLeod's award-winning site is considered to be the
   most exhaustive website with rules for different card games played with
   a standard deck. An outstanding and useful resource.
   ● BicycleCards.com - Bicycle's official website has their official
   rules for many different card games. It also has a helpful search
   function that allows you to find a suitable card game based on the
   number of players, who is playing, and type of game.
   ● BoardGameGeek.com - BoardGameGeek.com is the world's largest
   community of boardgamers. This page lists a number of games that can be
   played with a standard deck of playing cards, and gives some other
   links to their site. Also check their family page for traditional card
   games for more.
   ● Poker Suite - Cheapass Games offers a free download of the rules PDF
   for their Poker Suite, which is a collection of 14 original games that
   is well worth looking at.
   ● Femtitvå - Scott Huntington's free collection of 10 clever card games
   is inspired by modern games like Ticket to Ride and 7 Wonders.
   ● Isaludo - A set of ten modern card games designed to be played
   solitaire, created by hobbyist gamer Wilhelm Su from the Philippines.
   Play using an app: If you are not quite sure on the rules of how to
   play a specific card game mentioned above, there are plenty of apps
   available that will help you with that. The ideal way to learn a game
   is to have someone teach you, but an app is a fantastic second best,
   because it will enforce the rules. Many of them also include tutorials.
   There are quite a few software programs for card games that are readily
   available as well - most versions of Windows will come with Hearts and
   Spades, and some solitaire games too. Here are some good free apps for
   iOS for some of the games listed above; I've personally used, enjoyed,
   and can recommend all of these: Cribbage Craze (Cribbage) by Tim
   Eakins, Thirty One Rummy (Blitz) by North Sky Games, Briscola
--
   Argentina (Le Truc) by Jaime Garcia Ghirelli. There is also a great
   free app called Bicycle How To Play by United States Playing Card
   Company. You cannot play any games with this app, but it comes with
   rules for many of the most popular card games, so it functions as a
   digital document you can use on the fly to find the rules you need.
   Play online: Playing with an app that incorporates multiplayer games is
   one way to play online, but there are also websites dedicated to this
   purpose as well. This is not something I have tried much myself, but
   here are a few that you can start
   with: cardgames.io, worldofcardgames.com, trickstercards.com,
   and cardzmania.com.
   Ask family and friends: Many families have their household favourites.
   Perhaps some of your friends know some great card games that they would
   just love to teach you! A night playing card games with family or
   friends makes for a relaxing social evening, and is a great way to
   spend time together.
   Hoyle's rules of games
   So dust off that custom deck that is looking down at you expectantly
   from the shelf, invite over some family or friends, and get those
   playing cards to the table. Enjoy your deck and discover the fun that
   playing card games has been bringing people around the world for
   centuries!

Do you ever play card games? Which games do you play most? What do you think
of the listed games?

   Other articles you might find interesting:
--

   About the writer: EndersGame is a well-known and highly respected
   reviewer of board games and playing cards. He loves card games, card
   magic, cardistry, and card collecting, and has reviewed several hundred
   boardgames and hundreds of different decks of playing cards. You can
   see a complete list of his game reviews here, and his playing card
   reviews here. He is considered an authority on playing cards and has
   written extensively about their design, history, and function, and has
   many contacts within the playing card and board game industries. You
   can view his previous articles about playing cards here. In his spare
   time he also volunteers with local youth to teach them the art of
--
   Jo Ruesch on 2022,05,10

   Years ago we played a game with neighbors called “Kings Reverse” and
   also “Kings in the Corner” I am looking for the instructions for a
   friend that is a Senior Residence…..Hope you can help.
--
   Jennifer Marie Janus on 2022,05,10

   I came up with new game I called it 4’s. Fun game too play

   Marie on 2022,05,10

   Anyone out there know how to play a game called dirty queens?

   <a href="https://templerun3.co">temple run</a> on 2022,05,10

   awesome these cover games are very entertaining, it’s too great to
   relieve stress after stressful working hours

--
   reviewer EndersGame...
   rummy history
     * games, playing card history, playing cards, Rummy
     * February 14, 2023

The History Of Rummy Games

   by Brandi Marcene Card game lovers around the world are familiar with
   the rummy games. The popularity of card games is...
   About Shuffled Ink's Playing Cards
     * custom playing cards, playing cards
--

   Playing cards have been around since the late 1300's and were a luxury
   game that was mainly used by the...
   How Playing Card Improvements Have Helped Card Magic
     * Blog, card tricks, magic, playing card history, playing cards
