
   (BUTTON) Toggle Types subsection
     * 2.1Trick-taking games



   2.2Matching games



   2.3Shedding games



   2.4Catch and collect games



   2.5Fishing games



   2.6Comparing games



   2.7Patience and solitaire games



   2.8Drinking card games



   2.9Compendium games



   2.10Collectible card games (CCGs)



   2.11Living card games (LCGs)



   2.12Casino or gambling card games

     * 2.12.1Poker games



   2.13Other card games

     * 2.13.1Simulation card games



   2.14Fictional card games



   3Typical structure of card games

   (BUTTON) Toggle Typical structure of card games subsection
     * 3.1Number and association of players

--


   3.4Hands, rounds and games


--
   [ ] Toggle the table of contents

Card game

   [ ] 73 languages
--
   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
   Game using playing cards as the primary device
   For other uses, see Card game (disambiguation).

   [220px-Theodoor_Rombouts_-_Joueurs_de_cartes.jpg] The Card Players,
   17th-century painting by Theodoor Rombouts

   A card game is any game using playing cards as the primary device with
   which the game is played, be they traditional or game-specific.
   Countless card games exist, including families of related games (such
   as poker). A small number of card games played with traditional decks
   have formally standardized rules with international tournaments being
   held, but most are folk games whose rules may vary by region, culture,
   location or from circle to circle.

   Traditional card games are played with a deck or pack of playing cards
   which are identical in size and shape. Each card has two sides, the
   face and the back. Normally the backs of the cards are
--
   can be duplicates. The composition of a deck is known to each player.
   In some cases several decks are shuffled together to form a single pack
   or shoe. Modern card games usually have bespoke decks, often with a
   vast amount of cards, and can include number or action cards. This type
   of game is generally regarded as part of the board game hobby.

   Games using playing cards exploit the fact that cards are individually
   identifiable from one side only, so that each player knows only the
   cards they hold and not those held by anyone else. For this reason card
   games are often characterized as games of chance or "imperfect
   information"--as distinct from games of strategy or perfect
   information, where the current position is fully visible to all players
   throughout the game.^[1] Many games that are not generally placed in
   the family of card games do in fact use cards for some aspect of their
   play.

   Some games that are placed in the card game genre involve a board. The
   distinction is that the play in a card game chiefly depends on the use
   of the cards by players (the board is a guide for scorekeeping or for
   card placement), while board games (the principal non-card game genre
   to use cards) generally focus on the players' positions on the board,
   and use the cards for some secondary purpose.
--

   Despite the presence of playing cards in Europe being recorded from
   around 1370, it is not until 1408 that the first card game is described
   in a document about the exploits of two card sharps; although it is
   evidently very simple, the game is not named. In fact the earliest
   games to be mentioned by name are Gleek, Ronfa and Condemnade, the
   latter being the game played by the aforementioned card cheats. All
--

   Since the arrival trick-taking games in Europe in the late 14th
   century, there have only been two major innovations. The first was the
   introduction of trump cards with the power to beat all cards in other
--
   trump suit comprising a number of picture cards.^[4] The first known
   example of such cards was ordered by the Duke of Milan around 1420 and
   included 16 trumps with images of Greek and Roman gods.^[5] Thus games
   played with Tarot cards appeared very early on and spread to most parts
   of Europe with the notable exceptions of the British Isles, the Iberian
   Peninsula, and the Balkans.^[6] However, we do not know the rules of
   the early Tarot games; the earliest detailed description in any
--

   The concept of trumps was sufficiently powerful that it was soon
   transferred to games played with far cheaper ordinary packs of cards,
   as opposed to expensive Tarot cards. The first of these was Triomphe,
   the name simply being the French equivalent of the Italian trionfi.
   Although not testified before 1538, its first rules were written by a
   Spaniard who left his native country for Milan in 1509 never to return;
   thus the game may date to the late 15th century.^[9]^[10]^[11]

   Others games that may well date to the 15th century are Pochen - the
   game of Bocken or Boeckels being attested in Strasbourg in 1441^[12] -
   and Thirty-One, which is first mentioned in a French translation of a
   1440 sermon by the Italian, Saint Bernadine, the name actually
   referring to two different card games: one like Pontoon and one like
   Commerce.^[13]

--

   In the 16th century printed documents replace handwritten sources and
   card games become a popular topic with preachers, autobiographists and
   writers in general. A key source of the games in vogue in France and
   Gargantua played no less than 30 card games, many of which are
--
   Trente-et-Un; possibly Rams, Mouche and Brandeln as well.^[14] Girolamo
   Cardano also provides invaluable information including the earliest
   rules of Trappola. Among the most popular were the games of Flusso and
   Primiera, which originated in Italy and spread throughout Europe,
   becoming known in England as Flush and Primero.^[8]

   In Britain the earliest known European fishing game was recorded in
   1522.^[15] Another first was Losing Loadum, noted by Florio in 1591,
   which is the earliest known English point-trick game.^[16] In Scotland,
   the game of Mawe, testified in the 1550s, evolved from a country game
   into one played at the royal Scottish court, becoming a favourite of
   James I.^[17] The ancestor of Cribbage - a game called Noddy - is
   mentioned for the first time in 1589, "Noddy" being the Knave turned
   for trump at the start of play.^[18]
--
17th century[edit]

   The 17th century saw an upsurge in the number of new games being
   reported as well as the first sets of rules, those for Piquet appearing
   in 1632 and Reversis in 1634.^[8] The first French games compendium, La
   Charles Cotton's The Compleat Gamester, although an earlier manuscript
   of games by Francis Willughby was written sometime between 1665 and
   1670.^[19] Cotton records the first rules for the classic English games
   of Cribbage, a descendant of Noddy, and Whist, a development of English
   Trump or Ruff ('ruff' then meaning 'rob') in which four players were
--
   4 cards.^[20]

   Piquet was a two-player, trick-taking game that originated in France,
   probably in the 16th century and was initially played with 36 cards
   before, around 1690, the pack reduced to the 32 cards that gives the
   Piquet pack its name. Reversis is a reverse game in which players avoid
   taking tricks and appears to be an Italian invention that came to
   France around 1600 and spread rapidly to other countries in Europe.^[8]

   In the mid-17th century, a certain game named after Cardinal Mazarin,
   prime minister to King Louis XIV, became very popular at the French
   royal court. Called Hoc Mazarin, it had three phases, the final one of
   which evolved into a much simpler game called Manille that was renamed
--
   or hocs: cards that end a sequence and give the one who played it the
   advantage of being able to start a new sequence. This concept spread to
   other 17th and 18th century games including Poque, Comete, Emprunt,
   Manille, Nain Jaune and Lindor,^[22]^[23] all except Emprunt being
   still played in some form today.

   It was the 17th century that saw the second of the two great
   innovations being introduced into trick-taking games: the concept of
   bidding.^[3] This first emerged in the Spanish game of Ombre, an
   evolution of Triomphe that "in its time, was the most successful card
   game ever invented."^[24] Ombre's origins are unclear and obfuscated by
--
   being respectively Spanish and French for 'man'. In Ombre, the player
   who won the bidding became the "Man" and played alone against the other
   two. The game spread rapidly across Europe, spawning variants for
   different numbers of players and known as Quadrille, Quintille,
--
   example, in Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice.

   The first rules of any game in the German language were those for
   editions. In addition, the first German games compendium, Palamedes
   Redivivus appeared in 1678, containing the rules for Hoick (Hoc),
--
18th century[edit]

   The evolution of card games continued apace, with notable national
   games emerging like Briscola and Tressette (Italy), Schafkopf
   (Bavaria), Jass (Switzerland), Mariage, the ancestor of Austria's
   Schnapsen and Germany's Sixty-Six, and Tapp Tarock, the progenitor of
   most modern central European Tarot games. Whist spread to the continent
   becoming very popular in the north and west. In France, Comet appeared,
   a game that later evolved into Nain Jaune and the Victorian game of
   Pope Joan.

Types[edit]

   [220px-Preferans_%28card_game%29_in_Croatia.2.jpg] Preferans, a
   trick-taking card game version popular in Croatia

Trick-taking games[edit]

   See also: List of trick-taking games

   There are two main types of trick-taking game which have different
   objectives. Both are based on the play of multiple tricks, in each of
   which each player plays a single card from their hand, and based on the
   values of played cards one player wins or "takes" the trick.
     * Plain-trick games. Many common Anglo-American games fall into this
       category. The usual objective is to take the most tricks, but
       variations taking all tricks, making as few tricks (or penalty
       cards) as possible or taking an exact number of tricks. Bridge,
       Whist and Spades are popular examples. Hearts, Black Lady and Black
       Maria are examples of reverse games in which the aim is to avoid
       certain cards.

     * Point-trick games. These are all European or of European origin.
       Individual cards have specific point values and the objective is
       usually to amass the majority of points by taking tricks,
       especially those with higher value cards. The main group is the
       Ace-Ten family which includes many national games such as German
       Skat, French Belote, Dutch Klaberjass, Austrian Schnapsen, Spanish
       Tute, Swiss Jass, Portuguese Sueca, Italian Briscola and Czech
       All Tarot card games are of the point-trick variety including
       German Cego, Austrian Tarock, French Tarot and Italian Minchiate.

Matching games[edit]

   Main article: Matching game

   The object of a matching (or sometimes "melding") game is to acquire
   particular groups of matching cards before an opponent can do so. In
   Rummy, this is done through drawing and discarding, and the groups are
   called melds. Mahjong is a very similar game played with tiles instead
   of cards. Non-Rummy examples of match-type games generally fall into
   the "fishing" genre and include the children's games Go Fish and Old
   Maid.

Shedding games[edit]

   See also: Category:Shedding-type card games and List of shedding-type
   games

   In a shedding game, players start with a hand of cards, and the object
   of the game is to be the first player to discard all cards from one's
   hand. Common shedding games include Crazy Eights (commercialized by
   Mattel as Uno) and Daihinmin. Some matching-type games are also
   shedding-type games; some variants of Rummy such as Paskahousu, Phase
   10, Rummikub, the bluffing game I Doubt It, and the children's games
   Musta Maija and Old Maid, fall into both categories.

Catch and collect games[edit]

   See also: Category:Catch and collect games

   The object of an accumulating game is to acquire all cards in the deck.
   Examples include most War type games, and games involving slapping a
   discard pile such as Slapjack. Egyptian Ratscrew has both of these
   features.

  Fishing games[edit]

   "Fishing game" redirects here. For the video game genre, see fishing
   video game.

   See also: Category:Fishing card games

   In fishing games, cards from the hand are played against cards in a
   layout on the table, capturing table cards if they match.^[25] Fishing
   games are popular in many nations, including China, where there are
   many diverse fishing games. Scopa is considered one of the national
   card games of Italy. Cassino is the only fishing game to be widely
   played in English-speaking countries. Zwicker has been described as a
   "simpler and jollier version of Cassino", played in Germany.^[26]
   Tablanet (tablic) is a fishing-style game popular in Balkans.

  Comparing games[edit]

   See also: Category:Comparing card games

   Comparing card games are those where hand values are compared to
   determine the winner, also known as "vying" or "showdown" games. Poker,
   blackjack, mus, and baccarat are examples of comparing card games. As
   seen, nearly all of these games are designed as gambling games.

  Patience and solitaire games[edit]

   See also: Patience and solitaire games

   Solitaire games are designed to be played by one player. Most games
   begin with a specific layout of cards, called a tableau, and the object
   is then either to construct a more elaborate final layout, or to clear
--
   more "discard" or "foundation" piles.

  Drinking card games[edit]

   See also: Category:Drinking card games

   Drinking card games are drinking games using cards, in which the object
   in playing the game is either to drink or to force others to drink.
   Many games are ordinary card games with the establishment of "drinking
   rules"; President, for instance, is virtually identical to Daihinmin
   but with additional rules governing drinking. Poker can also be played
   using a number of drinks as the wager. Another game often played as a
   drinking game is Toepen, quite popular in the Netherlands. Some card
   games are designed specifically to be played as drinking games.

  Compendium games[edit]

   Compendium games consist of a sequence of different contracts played in
   succession. A common pattern is for a number of reverse deals to be
   played, in which the aim is to avoid certain cards, followed by a final
   contract which is a domino-type game. Examples include: Barbu, Herzeln,
   Lorum and Rosbiratschka. In other games, such as Quodlibet and Rumpel,
   there is a range of widely varying contracts.

  Collectible card games (CCGs)[edit]

   See also: Collectible card game, List of collectible card games, and
   Category:Collectible card games

   Collectible card games (CCG) are proprietary playing card games. CCGs
   are games of strategy between two or more players. Each player has
   their own deck constructed from a very large pool of unique cards in
   the commercial market. The cards have different effects, costs, and
   art. New card sets are released periodically and sold as starter decks
   or booster packs. Obtaining the different cards makes the game a
   collectible card game, and cards are sold or traded on the secondary
   collectible card games.

  Living card games (LCGs)[edit]

   See also: Living card game and Fantasy Flight Games

   Living card games (LCGs) are similar to collectible card games (CCGs),
   with their most distinguishing feature being a fixed distribution
   method, which breaks away from the traditional collectible card game
   format. While new cards for CCGs are usually sold in the form of
   starter decks or booster packs (the latter being often randomized),
   LCGs thrive on a model that requires players to acquire one core set in
   order to play the game, which players can further customize by
   acquiring extra sets or expansions featuring new content in the form of
   cards or scenarios. No randomization is involved in the process, thus
--
   can be seen using a very similar model.

  Casino or gambling card games[edit]

   See also: casino and gambling

   These games revolve around wagers of money. Though virtually any game
   in which there are winning and losing outcomes can be wagered on, these
   games are specifically designed to make the betting process a strategic
   part of the game. Some of these games involve players betting against
   each other, such as poker, while in others, like blackjack, players
   wager against the house.

    Poker games[edit]

   See also: List of poker variants and Category:Poker variants

   Poker is a family of gambling games in which players bet into a pool,
   called the pot, the value of which changes as the game progresses that
   the value of the hand they carry will beat all others according to the
   ranking system. Variants largely differ on how cards are dealt and the
   methods by which players can improve a hand. For many reasons,
   including its age and its popularity among Western militaries, it is
   one of the most universally known card games in existence.

  Other card games[edit]

   See also: Category:Dedicated deck card games

   Many other card games have been designed and published on a commercial
   or amateur basis. In some cases, the game uses the standard 52-card
   deck, but the object is unique. In Eleusis, for example, players play
   single cards, and are told whether the play was legal or illegal, in an
   attempt to discover the underlying rules made up by the dealer.

   Most of these games however typically use a specially made deck of
   cards designed specifically for the game (or variations of it). The
   decks are thus usually proprietary, but may be created by the game's
   players. Uno, Phase 10, Set, and 1000 Blank White Cards are popular
   dedicated-deck card games; 1000 Blank White Cards is unique in that the
   cards for the game are designed by the players of the game while
   playing it; there is no commercially available deck advertised as such.

    Simulation card games[edit]

   A deck of either customised dedicated cards or a standard deck of
--
   another activity, for example card football.

  Fictional card games[edit]


   Many games, including card games, are fabricated by science fiction
   authors and screenwriters to distance a culture depicted in the story
   from present-day Western culture. They are commonly used as filler to
   depict background activities in an atmosphere like a bar or rec room,
   but sometimes the drama revolves around the play of the game. Some of
   these games become real card games as the holder of the intellectual
   property develops and markets a suitable deck and ruleset for the game,
   while others lack sufficient descriptions of rules, or depend on cards
   or other hardware that are infeasible or physically impossible.

Typical structure of card games[edit]

   This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this
--
   _Players%29%2C_60_x_73_cm%2C_oil_on_canvas%2C_Courtauld_Institute_of_Ar
   t%2C_London.jpg] The Card Players, 1895 by Paul
--
   Seattle, Washington.

   Any specific card game imposes restrictions on the number of players.
   The most significant dividing lines run between one-player games and
   two-player games, and between two-player games and multi-player games.
   Card games for one player are known as solitaire or patience card
   games. (See list of solitaire card games.) Generally speaking, they are
   in many ways special and atypical, although some of them have given
   rise to two- or multi-player games such as Spite and Malice.

   In card games for two players, usually not all cards are distributed to
   the players, as they would otherwise have perfect information about the
   game state. Two-player games have always been immensely popular and
   include some of the most significant card games such as piquet,
   bezique, sixty-six, klaberjass, gin rummy and cribbage. Many
   multi-player games started as two-player games that were adapted to a
   greater number of players. For such adaptations a number of non-obvious
   choices must be made beginning with the choice of a game orientation.

   One way of extending a two-player game to more players is by building
   two teams of equal size. A common case is four players in two fixed
   partnerships, sitting crosswise as in whist and contract bridge.
--
   If communication between the partners is allowed at all, then it is
   usually restricted to a specific list of permitted signs and signals.
   17th-century French partnership games such as triomphe were special in
   that partners sat next to each other and were allowed to communicate
   freely so long as they did not exchange cards or play out of order.

   Another way of extending a two-player game to more players is as a
   cut-throat or individual game, in which all players play for
   themselves, and win or lose alone. Most such card games are round
   games, i.e. they can be played by any number of players starting from
   two or three, so long as there are enough cards for all.

   For some of the most interesting games such as ombre, tarot and skat,
   the associations between players change from hand to hand. Ultimately
   players all play on their own, but for each hand, some game mechanism
   divides the players into two teams. Most typically these are solo
   games, i.e. games in which one player becomes the soloist and has to
   achieve some objective against the others, who form a team and win or
   lose all their points jointly. But in games for more than three
   players, there may also be a mechanism that selects two players who
   then have to play against the others.
--
  Direction of play[edit]

   The players of a card game normally form a circle around a table or
   other space that can hold cards. The game orientation or direction of
   play, which is only relevant for three or more players, can be either
   clockwise or counterclockwise. It is the direction in which various
   roles in the game proceed. (In real-time card games, there may be no
   need for a direction of play.) Most regions have a traditional
   direction of play, such as:
--
   Games that originate in a region with a strong preference are often
   initially played in the original direction, even in regions that prefer
   the opposite direction. For games that have official rules and are
   played in tournaments, the direction of play is often prescribed in
   those rules.
--
  Determining who deals[edit]

   Most games have some form of asymmetry between players. The roles of
   players are normally expressed in terms of the dealer, i.e. the player
   whose task it is to shuffle the cards and distribute them to the
   players. Being the dealer can be a (minor or major) advantage or
   disadvantage, depending on the game. Therefore, after each played hand,
   the deal normally passes to the next player according to the game
   orientation.

--
   to the deck. The player who reveals the highest (or lowest) card
   becomes dealer. In the case of a tie, the process is repeated by the
   tied players. For some games such as whist this process of cutting is
   part of the official rules, and the hierarchy of cards for the purpose
   of cutting (which need not be the same as that used otherwise in the
   game) is also specified. But in general, any method can be used, such
   as tossing a coin in case of a two-player game, drawing cards until one
   player draws an ace, or rolling dice.

  Hands, rounds and games[edit]

   A hand, also called a deal, is a unit of the game that begins with the
   dealer shuffling and dealing the cards as described below, and ends
   with the players scoring and the next dealer being determined. The set
--
   Most often this occurs when one player (or all) has no cards left. The
   player who sits after the dealer in the direction of play is known as
   eldest hand (or in two-player games as elder hand) or forehand. A game
   round consists of as many hands as there are players. After each hand,
   the deal is passed on in the direction of play, i.e. the previous
   eldest hand becomes the new dealer. Normally players score points after
   each hand. A game may consist of a fixed number of rounds.
   Alternatively it can be played for a fixed number of points. In this
   case it is over with the hand in which a player reaches the target
--
   dominoes.

   For casino games that are played for large sums it is vital that the
   cards be properly randomized, but for many games this is less critical,
   and in fact player experience can suffer when the cards are shuffled
   too well. The official skat rules stipulate that the cards are shuffled
--
   they are in a uniform stack, and shuffles them. In strict play, the
   dealer then offers the deck to the previous player (in the sense of the
   game direction) for cutting. If the deal is clockwise, this is the
   player to the dealer's right; if counterclockwise, it is the player to
   the dealer's left. The invitation to cut is made by placing the pack,
--
   cards, if any, are left face down in the middle of the table, forming
   the stock (also called the talon, widow, skat or kitty depending on the
   game and region).

   Throughout the shuffle, cut, and deal, the dealer should prevent the
--
   and hold them in such a way that the faces can be seen by the holder of
   the cards but not the other players, or vice versa depending on the
   game. It is helpful to fan one's cards out so that if they have corner
   indices all their values can be seen at once. In most games, it is also
   useful to sort one's hand, rearranging the cards in a way appropriate
   to the game. For example, in a trick-taking game it may be easier to
   have all one's cards of the same suit together, whereas in a rummy game
   one might sort them by rank or by potential combinations.

--
   this template message)

   A new card game starts in a small way, either as someone's invention,
   or as a modification of an existing game. Those playing it may agree to
   change the rules as they wish. The rules that they agree on become the
   "house rules" under which they play the game. A set of house rules may
   be accepted as valid by a group of players wherever they play, as it
   may also be accepted as governing all play within a particular house,

   When a game becomes sufficiently popular, so that people often play it
   with strangers, there is a need for a generally accepted set of rules.
   This need is often met when a particular set of house rules becomes
--

   There is nothing static or "official" about this process. For the
   majority of games, there is no one set of universal rules by which the
   game is played, and the most common ruleset is no more or less than
   that. Many widely played card games, such as Canasta and Pinochle, have
   no official regulating body. The most common ruleset is often
   determined by the most popular distribution of rulebooks for card
   games. Perhaps the original compilation of popular playing card games
   was collected by Edmund Hoyle, a self-made authority on many popular
   parlor games. The U.S. Playing Card Company now owns the eponymous
   Hoyle brand, and publishes a series of rulebooks for various families
   of card games that have largely standardized the games' rules in
   countries and languages where the rulebooks are widely distributed.
   However, players are free to, and often do, invent "house rules" to
   supplement or even largely replace the "standard" rules.

   If there is a sense in which a card game can have an official set of
   rules, it is when that card game has an "official" governing body. For
   example, the rules of tournament bridge are governed by the World
   Bridge Federation, and by local bodies in various countries such as the
--
   down by the Schafkopfschule in Munich. Even in these cases, the rules
   must only be followed at games sanctioned by these governing bodies or
   where the tournament organisers specify them. Players in informal
   settings are free to implement agreed supplemental or substitute rules.
--
  Rule infractions[edit]

   An infraction is any action which is against the rules of the game,
   such as playing a card when it is not one's turn to play or the
   accidental exposure of a card, informally known as "bleeding."

   In many official sets of rules for card games, the rules specifying the
   penalties for various infractions occupy more pages than the rules
   specifying how to play correctly. This is tedious but necessary for
   games that are played seriously. Players who intend to play a card game
   at a high level generally ensure before beginning that all agree on the
   penalties to be used. When playing privately, this will normally be a
--
   arbitrate in cases of doubt.

   If a player breaks the rules of a game deliberately, this is cheating.
   The rest of this section is therefore about accidental infractions,
   caused by ignorance, clumsiness, inattention, etc.

   As the same game is played repeatedly among a group of players,
   precedents build up about how a particular infraction of the rules
   should be handled. For example, "Sheila just led a card when it wasn't
--
   be regarded as part of the house rules. Sets of house rules may become
   formalized, as described in the previous section. Therefore, for some
   games, there is a "proper" way of handling infractions of the rules.
   But for many games, without governing bodies, there is no standard way
   of handling infractions.

--
   what happens after an infraction. As a general principle, the person
   who broke a rule should not benefit from it, and the other players
   should not lose by it. An exception to this may be made in games with
   fixed partnerships, in which it may be felt that the partner(s) of the
   person who broke a rule should also not benefit. The penalty for an
--
   dated c. 1400 AD, Ming dynasty

   The oldest surviving reference to the card game in world history is
   from the 9th century China, when the Collection of Miscellanea at
   Duyang, written by Tang-dynasty writer Su E, described Princess
   Tongchang (daughter of Emperor Yizong of Tang) playing the "leaf game"
   with members of the Wei clan (the family of the princess's husband) in
   868 .^[28]^[29]^[30] The Song dynasty statesman and historian Ouyang
--
   Playing cards first appeared in Europe in the last quarter of the 14th
   century.^[31]^: 35 The earliest European references speak of a Saracen
   or Moorish game called naib, and in fact an almost complete Mamluk
   Egyptian deck of 52 cards in a distinct oriental design has survived
   from around the same time, with the four suits swords, polo sticks,
--
   The 1430s in Italy saw the invention of the tarot deck, a full
   Latin-suited deck augmented by suitless cards with painted motifs that
   played a special role as trumps. Tarot card games are still played with
   (subsets of) these decks in parts of Central Europe. A full tarot deck
   contains 14 cards in each suit; low cards labeled 1-10, and court cards
--
   for the purpose; today most tarot decks sold in North America are the
   occult type, and are closely associated with fortune telling. In
   Europe, "playing tarot" decks remain popular for games, and have
   evolved since the 18th century to use regional suits (spades, hearts,
   diamonds and clubs in France; leaves, hearts, bells and acorns in
--
   such as corner card indices and "stamped" card symbols for non-court
   cards. Decks differ regionally based on the number of cards needed to
   play the games; the French tarot consists of the "full" 78 cards, while
   Germanic, Spanish and Italian Tarot variants remove certain values
   (usually low suited cards) from the deck, creating a deck with as few
--
   The best-known deck internationally is the English pattern of the
   52-card French deck, also called the International or Anglo-American
   pattern, used for such games as poker and contract bridge. It contains
   one card for each unique combination of thirteen ranks and the four
   French suits spades, hearts, diamonds, and clubs. The ranks (from
--
   and rankings in the corner of the card is from 1693, but these cards
   did not become common until after 1864 when Hart reintroduced them
   along with the knave-to-jack change.) However, books of card games
   published in the third quarter of the 19th century evidently still
   referred to the "knave", and the term with this definition is still
--
   [220px-Chinese_Mother_Of_Pearl_Gambling_Tokens.jpg] Chinese
   mother-of-pearl gambling tokens used in scoring and bidding of card
   games.

--
   became popular and spread to Germany, where it was called La Bete and
   England where it was named Beast. It was a derivative of Triomphe and
   was the first card game in history to introduce the concept of
   bidding.^[33]

   Chinese handmade mother-of-pearl gaming counters were used in scoring
   and bidding of card games in the West during the approximate period of
   1700-1840. The gaming counters would bear an engraving such as a coat
   of arms or a monogram to identify a family or individual. Many of the
   gaming counters also depict Chinese scenes, flowers or animals. Queen
   Charlotte is one prominent British individual who is known to have
   played with the Chinese gaming counters. Card games such as Ombre,
   Quadrille and Pope Joan were popular at the time and required counters
   for scoring. The production of counters declined after Whist, with its
   different scoring method, became the most popular card game in the
   West.^[34]

   Based on the association of card games and gambling, Pope Benedict XIV
   banned card games on October 17, 1750.^[35]

See also[edit]
--
     * Game of chance
     * Game of skill
     * R. F. Foster (games)
     * Henry Jones (writer) who wrote under the pseudonym "Cavendish"
     * John Scarne
     * Dice game
     * List of card games by number of cards

References[edit]
--
   15. ^ Skelton (1522).
   16. ^ Florio (1591), p. 67.
   17. ^ Maw at parlettgames.uk. Retrieved 26 November 2022.
   18. ^ Noddy: Knavish ancestor of Cribbage at parlettgames.uk. Retrieved
       26 November 2023.
   19. ^ Willughby, Francis. A Volume of Plaies. (Manuscript in the
--
       Taipei: Caves Books, Ltd.(1986), Page 131
   31. ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d David Sidney Parlett (1990). The Oxford guide to card
       games. Internet Archive. Oxford University Press.
       ISBN 978-0-19-214165-1.
   32. ^ Dummett, Michael; Abu-Deeb, Kamal (1973), "Some remarks on Mamluk
       playing cards", Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes,
       63: 106-128, doi:10.2307/751160, JSTOR 751160, S2CID 192948205
   33. ^ "Euchre: history of, by David Parlett". www.parlettgames.uk.
       Archived from the original on May 4, 2019. Retrieved December 29,
       2022.
--
External links[edit]

   Wikimedia Commons has media related to Card games.

     * International Playing Card Society
     * Rules for historic card games
     * Collection of rules to many card games

     * v
--
     * e

   Non trick-taking card games

     * Shuffling
     * Cutting
     * Glossary of card game terms

   Adding
--

     * {{Historical card games}} {{Patience}} {{Trick-taking card games}}
       {{Tarot and Tarock card games}}

     * v
--
     * e

   Trick-taking card games (list)

   French packs
--
     * Kaiserspiel

     * Category {{Historical card games}} {{Non trick-taking card games}}
       {{Tarot and Tarock card games}}

     * v
--
     * e

   Tabletop games by type

   Board game

     * Adventure board game
     * Amerigame
     * Cooperative board game
     * Deduction board game
     * Eurogame
     * Race game
          + Cross and circle game
     * Legacy game
     * Running-fight game
     * Tables game
     * Tile-based game
          + Dominoes
          + Chinese dominoes
     * Train game
          + 18XX

   Card game

     * Collectible card game
     * Deck-building game
     * Dedicated deck card game
     * Shedding-type games
     * Patience
     * Tarot card games
     * Trick-taking game

   Strategy game

     * Abstract strategy game
          + Connection game
          + Tafl games
     * Constructible strategy game
     * Miniatures game
          + Collectible miniatures game
     * Wargame

   Other

     * Dice game
     * Matching game
     * Megagame
     * Icehouse pieces
     * Paper-and-pencil game
     * Social deduction game
     * Tabletop role-playing game

   Authority control databases Edit this at Wikidata
--

   Retrieved from
   "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Card_game&oldid=1186989702"

   Categories:
     * Card games
     * Tabletop games

   Hidden categories:
