    2. Advice and support
    3. Help to support someone else
    4. Why are drinking games dangerous?

Why are drinking games dangerous?

   Drinking games can mean drinking a lot, quickly, putting you at risk of
   accidents and alcohol poisoning.
     *
--
On this page

     * Who plays drinking games and why?
     * Risks of drinking games
     * Tips to stay in control
     * Drinking games and the low risk drinking guidelines

   Share
--

   Although they are something that many people experience when growing
   up, drinking games are far from being harmless fun. Taking part could
   mean you end up drinking a lot more than you intend, more quickly,
   increasing your risk of accidents and alcohol poisoning – which can be
   fatal.

   Read on to find out more about why drinking games can be dangerous, and
   how to stay in control.

Who plays drinking games, when and why?

   Any kind of drinking game - whether it’s based on gambling, chance, a
   ‘forfeit’ for breaking rules, or a competition – can mean people those
   taking part drink more than they want, faster than they intend. If you
--
   drink – and the risks increase the more you drink.

   Drinking games are common among young adults, with peer pressure to fit
   in commonly given as a reason for taking part.

--
   as we’re social creatures, peer pressure can affect anyone of any age.

   And if drinking games are played as part of ‘pre-loading’ (drinking
   before going out) they are associated with higher levels of alcohol
   consumption, and greater risk.^2 Find out more on our binge drinking
--
   Freshers’ week survival guide

Risks of drinking games

   Drinking alcohol very quickly – whether as part of a drinking game or
   not - can lead to acute alcohol poisoning, which can be extremely
   dangerous.
--
   decision you regret, whether this means walking home alone, having
   unprotected sex, or not being able to look out for friends, drinking
   games present real dangers.

   Binge drinking increases the likelihood of both becoming aggressive or
--
Tips to stay in control

   Peer pressure in social situations around drinking games can affect
   anyone. Try these tips to stay in control.
     * (BUTTON)
--
Be kind to your future self

   Opting out of a drinking game will lower your risk of alcohol
   poisoning. It could also help you avoid a hangover, or making a
   decision you might regret – like texting an ex- or behaving in
--
Control your wallet

   Drinking games can be very expensive – buying huge rounds at the bar
   can rapidly burn through your money. Put the money you save towards a
   treat for yourself.
--
   Ideas for drink-free days

Drinking games and the UK low risk drinking guidelines

   The UK Chief Medical Officers’ (CMO) low risk drinking
--
   alcoholic drinks with water and planning ahead to avoid problems.

   Getting involved in drinking games can seriously speed up the rate you
   drink so you’re more likely to exceed the guidelines.

--
   drink-free days, and no bingeing.

   Following the low risk drinking guidelines and avoiding drinking games
   can help keep your risk low from accidents and injuries, physical or
   sexual abuse, alcohol poisoning and a range of long-term health
