
   healthy kids health center/healthy kids a-z list/what is the most
   dangerous game parents must know article

   MedicineNet
--

     * 11 Dangerous Games
          + 11 dangerous games parents should know about

   dangerous games parents should know about
   Children are especially vulnerable to the dangers of risky games and
   challenges online

--

   Every time your child is online, there is a potential threat to their
   privacy, as well as yours. Many online sites and games can digitally
   tracking your location, which can be misused by cybercriminals and
   perpetrators of child abuse.

   However, something that parents may not be aware of is that there are
   tons of challenges and games on social media, where kids are encouraged
   to engage in extremely dangerous behavior. It's important to take
   necessary precautions to protect your kids:
--
     * Keep sharp or harmful objects away from them

   The first step, though, is knowing which games are the most popular.

11 dangerous games parents should know about

Blue Whale challenge

   This is an online suicide game led by a social media group where
   administrators ask children and teenagers to take on a series of
   challenges that end with them eventually killing themselves. This game
   is responsible for hundreds of teen suicides worldwide. Players are
   required to do a series of bizarre tasks in 50 days, putting peer
--

   A 21-year-old Russian, Philipp Budeikin, was found to be the mastermind
   behind this game and was arrested. However, some suspect that the game
   still exists and is being managed by other people

Choking game

   Also known as the fainting game, the choking game is where children and
   teens strangle themselves or strangle each other on video. The game is
   meant to cause deprivation of oxygen to the brain resulting in a
   feeling of being  high (similar to alcohol or recreational drugs),
--

   This challenge involves biting down on a brightly colored laundry
   detergent packet and spitting out or ingesting its contents. This game
   began as a joke with children, but it can cause serious health
   problems, especially if they swallow the detergent. Tide pods are
   brightly colored and look like candy. Children are attracted to such
   products and may ingest them accidentally, even outside the game. It is
   therefore best to keep these items out of your child's reach.

--
   This is an online prank that targets younger children, giving them
   dangerous instructions such as turning on gas in the stove at midnight
   when nobody is awake and then going back to sleep. The game promises
   children that if they do this, they will wake up and become fire
   fairies. This game has resulted in fires and serious burn injuries in
   children.

Mariam's game

   This is an online game that revolves around a child lost in the forest
   who asks players to help find her way back home. The game has
   frightening audio and visual sound effects. Players are asked a series
   of personal questions as they accompany the little girl home. This is
--
Five-finger fillet

   This is a game that involves stabbing a knife between each finger,
   really fast, with the goal of not hitting any finger. However, this has
   resulted in serious hand injuries in many people, including older teens
--
Cutting challenge

   This is an online game that encourages children and teens to cut their
   own arms, legs, or other body parts with a razor blade or knife.
   Following this, they need to take pictures, show their friends or post
--
Charlie Charlie

   Charlie Charlie, an urban legend game, has gained some popularity due
   to social media stars filming themselves playing it. The concept is
   similar to an Ouija board:
--
   because of a breeze or other children trying to shake them.

   Although the game does not cause any physical danger, it can deeply
   affect children's mental health. Fear of ghosts and demons causes many
   children to become scared, have night terrors and insomnia, wet the
--

   References
   https://www.webmd.com/parenting/features/dangerous-games-parents-must-k
   now-about
   https://www.familyeducation.com/mobile-apps/a-complete-guide-to-potenti
