   favorite traditional dishes. But even the most beloved main dishes can
   become a little tired. We have a suggestion for making your meals a
   little different and possibly even more delicious: Bring game meat to
   your dining room table.

   In addition to lamb, beef, pork, and poultry, numerous meat-centric
   wholesalers and retailers around the country also offer wild and
   farm-raised game meats. Game meats are usually categorized as the
   following:
     * Winged game, such as quail, duck, and pheasant.
     * Ground game, such as hare and rabbit.
     * Big game, such as bison, venison, elk, and wild boar.

   They're not only interesting from a culinary perspective but are
--
   our diets.

   This feature highlights some of our favorite game meats and how they
   can be used as alternatives to the common center-of-the-plate proteins
   such as poultry, pork, and beef.
--
Pheasant

   Pheasant is one of the most approachable game birds, perfect for those
   new to the world of game meats. Similar to the size of a chicken, a
   whole pheasant averages about 2 to 3 pounds. It has lean meat that is
   full of flavor, making it a great alternative to chicken and
--
Squab

   Smaller than pheasant and often called a young pigeon, squab is a game
   bird usually only about 1 pound or less in size. Unlike pheasant, its
   meat throughout is a red dark meat (similar to duck or dark meat
--
Quail

   As the smallest of the game birds on this list, quail is another great
   substitute for poultry. Its meat looks very similar to chicken but more
   intense and pronounced in flavor. Typically weighing just 4 to 6
--
   be simply pan roasted.

   Like other game birds, the meat is lean. While it should be cooked
   through until juices run clear, it cooks very quickly and can become
   dry if overcooked; basting or brushing with fat will help retain
   moisture. Because of their small size, quail is one of the easiest and
   fastest game birds to prepare, and it is also incredibly versatile.

   Flavor Pairings
--
Bison

   For someone new to game meat, one of the easiest ways to get an
   introduction is by substituting a favorite beef dish with
   bison. Although very similar to cattle in its nature, farmed bison does
--
Venison

   Perhaps one of the more familiar game meats, venison refers to the meat
   from deer. Although hunting for deer is legal in certain areas and at
   certain times of the year, the venison available for purchase from
--
Wild Boar

   One of the wildest of the game meats, wild boar is one of the oldest
   species in existence, dating back to before the Ice Age. Native wild
   boar is found in various regions throughout the world and has been a
--
   How to Prepare

   Similar to other game meats, wild boar is best cooked gently over low
   heat and, if using a dry heat method, not overcooked. Instead of a
   crown pork roast, make a crown wild boar rack. Instead of Christmas
--
   Game meat can sometimes be found at meat counters and specialty
   butchers. Check with your local farmers market as well. There are a
   variety of retailers selling game meats online that offer nationwide
   delivery.
   Where's the Beef? Chew On These Top Beef Cuts
