   System Fishing System Deals
   Phelps
   Quality game calls
   Phelps
   Elk Calls Deer Calls Turkey Calls Waterfowl Calls Predator Calls Deals
--
   Steven Rinella May 14, 2018

   Unlike big game hunting, where there are typically separate seasons for
   firearms and archery equipment, there are no legal incentives to hunt
   small game with a bow. There are a few exceptions to this rule,
   including an archery-only duck hunt on a coastal refuge in the vicinity
   of Anchorage, Alaska. That alone should make you interested in archery
   equipment.

   Instead, the decision to hunt small game with a bow typically comes
   down to personal aesthetics. Some hunters value a challenge as much or
   more as they value wild meat, and the thrill of hitting, or trying to
--
   Nothing will meet these all of these challenges as efficiently as a
   fast-shooting compound bow. What’s more, by using the same bow for both
   big game and small game hunting, you’ll be practicing for big game
   hunting while chasing small game, and vice-versa.

   Traditional vs Compound
   But if you’re considering a bow purchase strictly for small game, and
   more particularly for flushed rabbits and game birds, you should
   consider going with a traditional recurve or longbow that will allow
   you to take snapshots at the fast-moving game. A compound bow must be
   held at full draw to aim and fire; this takes time and prevents snap
   shooting. Here are some additional pros and cons to consider when
   purchasing a bow that you’ll use for small game hunting.
   Top: Compound bow. This is a Hoyt Carbon Spyder with Easton Full Metal
   Jacket Arrow and a Wasp Archery fixed blade broadhead. Bottom: A
   traditional bow. Shown here is a Hoyt Tiburon recurve with High Plains
   Hunter arrow and Judo small game point.

   Compound Bow
--
   and ask questions. When one of us says something, it’s helpful if the
   rest of us knows what they’re talking about. To that end, here’s a
   basic rundown of methods and strategies used by small game hunters:
   still hunting; spot and stalk...
   Tips for Recovering Downed Small Game
--
   picking it up. Often, though, things are much more tricky than that.
   Recovery can be hard, time-consuming work when hunting in brushy or
   swampy areas where downed small game can be hidden from sight. Here are
   some tips to help you recover more game and bring more meat to the
   table. If you connect on a shot...
   Tips for Jump-Shooting and Flushing Small Game
--
   Jump-shooting generally refers to putting ducks and geese up off the
   water and then taking flying-away shots at the birds. Flushing implies
   upland game, “flushed” out of heavy cover. But despite these casual
   differences, the concepts are very similar in practice. In the above
   scenario, a hunter and her lab are working some old clearcuts and
