30 Fantastic Party Games to Make Your Next Gathering a Blast

   Forget elaborate props and pricy board games—these entertaining party
   games are simple, easy to play, and fun for everyone.
   By
   Lauren Phillips
--
     * Kids

   Thinking of party games may bring to mind memories of Pin the Tail on
   the Donkey and piñatas, but there are so many more party game ideas out
   there that won't make you feel like a kid again. Like road trip games,
   clever party games can be tailored to the crowd playing them, and these
   ideas are practically guaranteed to make sure everyone has a great
   time.

   If there's no room in your party-planning checklist for game time,
   that's fine. (Sometimes, great conversations and catching up with
   distant friends are all a successful gathering needs.) But if you would
   rather fill your holiday party with laughter and activity, or if you
   need to keep little ones entertained, these people-pleasing party games
   have you covered.
   Party games, ideas for adults, kids, and families Party games, ideas
   for adults, kids, and families
   Getty Images

   Because these games have flexible rules and little to no supplies, you
   can keep them casual and make them work for any event, whether it's a
   birthday party, a holiday celebration, or an intimate gathering around
   a small dining table. Most can work for adults or kids, depending on
   what rules you play by. They're all great for families, so you have
   something to do after your gift exchange ideas and games or
   Thanksgiving feast besides gathering around the TV.

   Pick a few party games that work for you, and keep them in mind for any
   gathering. They're so easy to explain and play that you can whip them
   out at a moment's notice if the party's energy begins to fall, saving
--
   The Best Games for Entertaining at Home

Party games for any occasion and all ages

   1. Saran Wrap Game
--
   item to place at the center of your saran wrap ball. Wrap it thoroughly
   in plastic wrap, then add more items as your wrapped ball gets bigger,
   trapping them in layers of wrap. (To make the game more challenging,
   tear the wrap into smaller sheets as you go.) Once you've used a whole
   roll of wrap (or more, if desired), you're ready to play.
--
   4. Most Likely To

   This party game works best for close groups of friends or family
   members. Gather in a circle. Begin with one person asking, "Who's most
   likely to trip over their own feet?" (Or another situation, trait,
--
   pointed at them is out. Go around the circle asking, "Who's most likely
   to…" until all but one person is out. You can skip the eliminations to
   make the game last longer.

   5. Never Have I Ever
--
   saying "Never have I ever…" must hold up a finger. Continue around the
   circle until one person has three fingers up: They're out. This party
   game can get as racy as you make it, so play carefully and set ground
   rules ahead of time if sensitive grandparents, kids, or conservative
   guests are involved.
--
   7. Heads Up!

   This game requires an app: The Heads Up! app is available from the App
   Store and Google Play. After the 99-cent purchase and download, though,
   you have hours of entertainment on-hand at all times. (In-app purchases
--
   8. I'm Hosting a Party…

   For a more cognitive game, play this brain teaser. Say you're hosting a
   party, and only people who bring the right contributions are given an
   invitation. Pick a secret rule: Typically, everyone must bring
--
   to three continents, and I love cats," for example. Two should be true;
   one should be a lie. Everyone else must guess which is the lie, and
   then the next person goes. This is a great getting-to-know-you game; if
   you're playing with family or friends, pick obscure details to trick
   each other to make it even more fun.
--
   10. Sticker Stalker

   Purchase a pack of stickers. (This one is a great Christmas party game
   or Halloween party game, so try to find stickers that suit the
   occasion.) Give everyone one sheet of five to 10 stickers (or less,
   depending on the size of the party). This game works best at a party
   where everyone is mingling, so you can incorporate it easily into your
   happy hour or neighborhood function. Each person must discreetly place
--
   the seats next to them. The person in the middle will also be racing
   for a chair; whoever is left standing at the end stands in the circle
   next, and the game continues.

   12. Spoons
--
   This is a trickier take on I'm Hosting a Party. Sit in a circle and
   designate yourself as the host. (Just don't tell everyone the name of
   the game.) Say you are hosting a party but will only invite people
   bringing the right items. Go around the circle and have everyone
   suggest contributions; the host will say who is invited and who isn't.
--
   19. Mr. Freeze

   Pick one person to be Mr. Freeze. Have everyone playing the game move
   around the party as usual. When Mr. Freeze freezes, though, everyone
   else must freeze too. Whoever freezes last is out. Repeat for the
--
   20. Musical Chairs

   Okay, it's a popular party game for kids, but adults can also get in on
   the fun. Set up chairs (or seat cushions) in a circle facing outward,
   with enough seating for everyone playing, minus one. Designate one
--
   21. Charades

   This tried-and-true party game can be as simple or as complicated as
   you make it. Have everyone write down concepts, movies, people, shows,
   and more to act out and divide into teams. One person will act out
--
   9 Virtual Games to Play When You Can't Be Together

How to make any party game a drinking game

   For adults, if you want things to get a little wild, just add alcohol.
   For most games, instead of someone being "out" after losing, have them
   take a sip of their drink (or a shot, if you're feeling particularly
   rowdy). In games involving rule-making (Kings, Cheers to the Governor,
   etc.), any rule can be turned into an instruction to drink: Women
   drink, men drink, people wearing black drink, etc. If you are
   introducing drinking games to your gathering, drink responsibly, and
   stay safe. (And don't forget to offer non-alcoholic mocktail options
   for designated drivers and people who are staying sober.)

Party games for adults

   24. Telephone Pictionary
--
   25. Mafia

   This game is also known as Assassin, Werewolf, or Village. If you have
   a large group, a deck of cards, a lot of time, and long attention
   spans, this intense puzzle of a game is a lot of fun, if a little
   complicated. See the full rules for Mafia; essentially, certain members
   of the group are the bad guys (the mafia, assassins, etc.); others are
   villagers, and still more are police officers. One is the game
   moderator. The police officers are trying to guess who the bad guys are
   before they can kill all the villagers.
--
   Find Your Party Planning Style

Party games for kids (and kids at heart)

   27. I Spy
--
   29. Minute to Win It Games

   If you've ever seen the old TV game show, these are funny physical or
   mental challenges that your party guests have to complete in under a
   minute (great for a lot of laughs). Think picking up Cheerios with a
--
   30. Limbo

   This time-honored party game lets kids try to see how low they can go.
   (All you need is a broom and some calypso music to make limbo happen!)
   Was this page helpful?
--
   Road Trip Games Road Trip Games
   20 Fun Road Trip Games for Adults
   new-years-eve-games-GettyImages-1195050503 (1)
   new-years-eve-games-GettyImages-1195050503 (1)
   New Year's Party Games to Celebrate 2024
   creative-gift-exchange-games creative-gift-exchange-games
   30+ Gift Exchange Ideas—Including Games, Traditions, and Tips
   hand holding red teapot and roses and teacups on a green background
--
   40 Fun Things to Do When It's Too Hot Outside (and You Don't Have a
   Pool)
   virtual-board-games: colorful dice for Yahtzee virtual-board-games:
   colorful dice for Yahtzee
   Board Games Gathering Dust? Try These Creative Ways to Play Them
--
   Kids Playing 4th of July Games Kids Playing 4th of July Games
   4th of July Games to Keep Kids Entertained All Day
   people playing a board game at home people playing a board game at home
   8 Fun and Challenging Board Games to Help Pass the Time When You're
   Stuck Indoors
--
   outdoor-entertaining-GettyImages-1408935851
   30 Outdoor Entertaining Ideas That'll Save You Tons of Time
   Father's Day activities and games - things to do on Father's Day
   (father and child) Father's Day activities and games - things to do on
   Father's Day (father and child)
   28 Great Father's Day Activities and Games the Whole Family Will Enjoy
