   When planning a party, you need to have great food and great people.
   However, if you really want to make your party memorable for years to
   come, you’ll need great party games. We sometimes overlook the pure joy
   that can come out of playing a great party game with a room full of
   friends, so we have a list of the 40 best party games.

Shop Trending Categories
--
Fleece Blankets

   Whether you are looking for a nice, low-activity party game for adults,
   a fun jigsaw puzzle, or a wet and wild birthday party game for kids,
   there are thousands of fun party activities to choose from. By the time
   it takes you to pick the best one, your guests may have already left.
   But not to worry, because we have put together a list of 40 of the best
   party games you can play to entertain your guests. Use the filters to
   choose the size of your party, activity level, and type of game you are
   looking to play. You can plan your whole party around a fun game, like
   a family reunion Tug of War. Then, tell everyone in your personalized
   party invitations to be sure they come prepared for some laughter and
--

   Break children into two equal teams. Two teammates sit back to back.
   When the game starts, the children lock arms and bend their knees. They
   then attempt to stand up without using their hands. Whichever team can
   stand up first wins.
--
Description

   Hand out ice cubes to everyone. When the game starts, players can try
   everything they can to melt the ice cube quicker than their opponents.
   They can rub it between their hands or on their shirt, or blow on it.
--
Example

   John is given an icecube. At the start of the game he blows hot air on
   the ice cube with his mouth to try to melt it. He does it faster than
   anyone else and wins.
--

   Set slices of cake on plates around the table in front of each child.
   When the game starts all children begin to eat the cake using only
   their mouth and keeping their hands behind their back.

Example

   Cameron has a piece of cake in front of him. The game starts and he
   works to eat the piece of cake using only his mouth. He is able to
   finish the entire piece before everyone else, so he wins.
--

   Divide children into two teams and assign each team a ‘mummy’. Give
   each team one roll of toilet paper. When the game starts, the kids must
   wrap the ‘mummy’ in toilet paper. Whichever team finishes their roll of
   toilet paper first is the winner.
--
   Four kids are walking around a group of three chairs. When the music
   stops, Jim tries to get to a chair but Timmy, Alice, and Trevor sit in
   seats before he can get to one. Jim is out. The game continues until
   there is only one person left sitting.
   (BUTTON)
--
Description

   Assign one person to start the game. He/she writes a sentence that
   starts a story then passes the pen and paper to the next person in
   line. They add a sentence, continuing the story. This continues until
--
   impersonate the person to their left. Greg comes back and asks the
   first person what color hair they have, or what their age is. This
   helps Greg figure out the pattern and win the game.
   (BUTTON)

--
   Place a flag or marker in the middle of a thick rope. Then break up
   children into two equal teams and have them stand behind lines
   equidistant from the middle of the rope. When the game starts, each
   side pulls on the rope to try to get the flag over their line.

--
Description

   Everybody arranges in a circle. One player starts the game by
   whispering a phrase in the ear of the person on his/her left. This gets
   repeated all the way around the circle until it reaches the start.
--
Wrapping Up

   Whether you play these party games with your family or friends, these
   memories you create while playing these games will last a lifetime.
   Cherish all the moments you’ve spent together playing these games and
   make everlasting bonds with your loved ones. Be sure to capture these
   memories with pictures that you can add in a custom photo book and on
