   (BUTTON)

   Eight examples that explain all you need to know about serious games
   and game-based learning

Eight examples that explain all you need to know about serious games and
game-based learning

   Gamelearn Team 06 Mar / 2017

   At first sight, putting words like “serious” and “game” together might
   seem impossible, but it’s not. In recent years, serious games have
   proven that it is possible to learn while you play. This teaching
   method is known as game-based learning, a trend that’s expanding at the
   speed of light in primary schools, prestigious universities and large
   corporations. In this post, we’re going to tell you all you need to
   know about serious games and learning through video games, including
   their main characteristics and benefits, and a few prime examples.

What is a serious game?

   Serious games are games whose primary objective is NOT fun or
   entertainment, rather learning or practicing a skill. Its use has
   grown, particularly in such sectors as education, defense, aeronautics,
--
Example 1: Dragon Box Elements

   In the field of education, one of the most simple (and effective) games
   is Dragon Box Elements. Here, players have to build an army, defeat the
   evil dragon Osgard and save Euclid’s island. Designed for kids of nine
   years-of-age and upwards, to manage all that, they have to learn basic
   geometry and the theorems of Euclid himself. Dragon Box is a good
   example of a serious game: the students learn math while they have fun
   with a video game.

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/rm-6pDiSH44

What is game-based learning?

   The method that uses video games for learning purposes is known as
   game-based learning. The key lies in the fact that the content and the
   skills that you want to teach are not put across in a face-to-face
   class or in a book but rather through video games. Advocates of this
   innovative method of teaching think that video games can be a fun and
   effective tool at one and the same time, reducing the costs of training
   programs, increasing student motivation and facilitating direct
   practice. The star products of game-based learning are precisely,
   serious games.

Example 2: Pulse!!
--
   The healthcare sector has enthusiastically welcomed this innovative
   method of teaching. The expert in nursing, Claudia Johnston, based
   herself on first-person shooting video games (such as Quake or Duke to
   develop Pulse!!, which reproduces the conditions of an emergency ward
   in a hospital. Thanks to this video game, future nurses can practice
   all they have learnt in their theoretical classes and gain experience
   handling real situations. The goal of the players is to identify each
--
   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/NxwUMs4VCag

The 5 elements of a serious game

   It’s no easy task to create a serious game: it requires a lot of
   talent, a lot of time and a lot of money. Although there is a huge
   variety of formats and objectives, most game-based learning systems
   tend to have five elements that ensure they work properly and are
   effective:

   1 – A story. Although it is by no means essential, most video games
   have a plot or a main story. It may be a prince risking life and limb
   to rescue a princess or a brave soldier who has to put paid to his
--
   patient’s life. The more sophisticated the argument (and the
   characters), the easier it will be to motivate the players and for them
   to get into the game.

Example 3: Pacific

   The video game Pacific starts just there, with a story: while on a
   humanitarian mission, a team’s plane crashes and they are trapped on an
   island in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. The player’s objective is to
--
   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/YopbkCYSIEU

   2 – Gamification. The second fundamental element of any serious game
   are the game dynamics, which include the rankings, rewards, badges or
   points systems. This gamification tends to animate and motivate the
   players: we all love to get more coins, obtain more lives or pass
   through to the next level (remember Mario Bros?). Classifications or
   rankings are also very important in serious games: healthy competition
   with our classmates or work colleagues encourage us to try that bit
   harder and to do everything possible to beat our rivals.
--
   receive points, go up to the next level, lose lives or outdo their
   friends and relations. Each lesson they learn has a reward. Even though
   Duolingo is not strictly speaking a serious game, it is one of the most
   successful applications when it comes to using gamification elements
   for learning.
--
   3 – Immediate and individualized feedback. As opposed to face-to-face
   courses (normally with dozens of people in the classroom and one single
   teacher), serious games offer immediate and personalized feedback. The
   player interacts directly with the game and instantly receives a reward
   or a punishment. In the most sophisticated video games, this feedback
   is also detailed and argued: users can know where they have gone wrong
   and can try to do better next time. If properly imparted, this feedback
   can be a powerful learning tool.

   4 – Simulation. In most cases, serious games reproduce or imitate real
   life situations. Using fictitious characters and by recreating
   scenarios, players find themselves immersed in a world similar to the
--
   phone. These simulators make it possible for users to interact with a
   new reality and to practice the skills and concepts they have acquired
   during the game.

Example 5: The Virtual Interactive Combat Environment (VICE)
--
   in this latter field is undoubtedly the United States Defense
   Department, probably the public body which has dedicated most money and
   resources to game-based learning in the last number of decades. One of
   its best-known video games is The Virtual Interactive Combat
   Environment (VICE), which uses a sophisticated 3D simulator to allow
   military personnel to practice conflict resolution, how to use
--

   5 – The goal: to learn. We’ll not tire of repeating it: the key element
   of serious games is that their purpose is to teach something. All the
   elements we’ve mentioned above can be found in endless commercial video
   games, but that does not necessarily make them serious games. As well
   as using all these elements, serious games also have to have a purpose
   that is not recreational and that almost always has to do with a
   certain educational or training aspect.

What are the advantages of game-based learning and serious games?

   When all the above elements are combined successfully, we have a
--
   the major concerns of teachers and HR managers.

   Serious games and game-based learning are two of the best solutions to
   this problem. Video games are necessarily interactive and users have to
   make decisions from the word go. Game dynamics encourage effort and the
   narrative they are wrapped up in serves to motivate the students. The
   most sophisticated video games can even turn learning into an
   addiction. As they explain in the book The Gamification of Learning and
   Instruction Fieldbook, “The more the learner interacts with other
--
   Millennials (both in school and at work) are one of the sectors where
   it can prove hardest to achieve engagement. To solve that problem, in
   Jordan they have developed a video game on Facebook called “Our City”,
   which seeks to get people between 15 and 24 involved in their local
   communities, enhance their social behavior and invite them to take part
   in the life of the city. The game, which has certain similarities with
   the popular The Sims, makes young people mayors, and it allows them to
   build the city from scratch while keeping all the townspeople happy at
--
   day and the next. This makes it hard to strategically plan for the long
   term, and it prevents us from reflecting in any profound way on the
   challenges and opportunities we are facing. Serious games, thanks to
   how they can immerse us in other worlds and whisk us away from reality,
   can provide just the distance we need to encourage in-depth reflection
--
   3 – They facilitate real and safe practice

   As opposed to face-to-face training, game-based learning is a form of
   learning that is based on practice. Thanks to the simulators, the
   players can interact with other characters and they can use the
   knowledge they have gained from the outset. Serious games also offer
   the best of both worlds: on the one hand, the simulators should
   reproduce reality as faithfully as possible; on the other hand, the
   fact that it is a video game allows users to practice in safety without
   any risk of personal harm or material damage. This is particularly
   important if we are talking about operating in a surgery or flying a
--

   Real and direct practice is also vital in the corporate world. As is
   the case with the video game Merchants (part of the Gamelearn
   platform), which trains employees in any manner of company in how to
   negotiate and in how to resolve conflicts. In Merchants, the players
   are transported to the Venice of the late 15th century. Here they have
   to endeavor to build their commercial empire and to face up to tough
   negotiators such as Machiavelli. This video game allows the employees
   of a multinational to handle difficult negotiations that they can then
   apply in the real world, but without their company having to pay the
--
   4 – They improve memorization and retention

   One of the advantages of serious games is that by increasing the
   engagement and the motivation of the students, they also increase their
   memorization and retention of what they have learnt. Add to this real
--

   That may well sound overly ambitious, but the fact is that several
   serious games have also been so bold as to attempt to change the world.
   The fact that we like gamification and simulators can be a good tool
   for encouraging empathy, promoting peace, defending people’s rights or
   spreading civic values. As opposed to the stereotype by which video
   games are a cause of antisocial or violent behavior, the reality is
   that game-based learning can encourage prosocial and positive attitudes
   for society as a whole.

Example 8: Food Force

   In 2005, the United Nations World Food Programme developed a video game
   to promote social awareness and the fight against hunger. In the video
   game (Food Force) the players put themselves in the shoes of a UN
   rookie, who has to handle a crisis involving famine and civil war on an
   island in the Pacific. The player’s goal is to distribute food among
   the populace and to help the country to become self-sufficient in the
   medium to long term. A fantastic example of how serious games can make
   the world a better place.

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/FXkedpXKUtY

The success of serious games and game-based learning

   All these benefits have placed game-based learning at the vanguard of
   the revolution in education that the world of teaching and corporative
   training is experiencing at the moment. Many of these more or less
   sophisticated video games are used every day by millions of people (in
   many cases, without their even realizing it). For example, in the
   United Kingdom, most players (33%) prefer video games to puzzles, word
   games or trivial pursuits. Although not all of them can be considered
   serious games, it is a good indicator of the growing acceptance of
   game-based learning throughout the world.

   Serious games are also a very serious business. According to estimates
   made by the consultancy Marketandmarkets, this sector will grow between
   2015 and 2020 at an average annual rate of 16.38%, which will mean that
   last year the business will have reached 5.449 billion dollars. There
   is a growing demand for learning through video games and little by
   little, the market is responding to that demand.

   The reasons why game-based learning is so popular, are becoming much
   more well known: as we have seen, they improve student engagement and
   motivation, they afford direct practice without risk, and they
   facilitate the memorization and retention of knowledge. While serious
   games have been around for centuries (let’s not forget that ever since
   we were small we’ve all been learning as we play), the social and
   technological changes of recent years are extending game-based learning
   to the four corners of the planet. Whether it is to improve the
   training of nurses, to help primary school kids learn geometry or to
   promote leadership skills among the employees of a company, serious
   games have become one of the most practical and effective teaching
   tools in the world today.

--

   The importance of asking your coachee the right questions
   The top 10 game-based learning leaders you should follow

   The top 10 game-based learning leaders you should follow
   7 key benefits that game-based learning brings to corporate training

   7 key benefits that game-based learning brings to corporate training
   Multiversity wins LearnX Award in

   Multiversity wins LearnX Award in "Best e-learning Design" with a
   serious game powered by Gamelearn

Leave a comment Cancel reply
--
          + Productivity
          + Communication
     * Tailor-made video games
     * Request a demo
