The Most Popular School Playground Games

   Children play many classic outdoor games on school playgrounds, many of
   which have been played for generations, and some are new for this
   generation of youngsters. Kids love playing, whether it's during
   recess, after school, on the weekend or all summer long.

   There are some games kids often play on playground equipment, whether
   it's making believe they're in a castle or mountain climbing. Kids have
   such active imaginations, though, that they can play games even when
   there's nothing but asphalt, blacktop or a sidewalk to play on.

   Academic studies are certainly important, but playing games at school
   is just as helpful for growth and learning. Games help kids stay in
   shape, develop their creative abilities and build social skills -- what
--

   It would be impossible to list all the different types of children's
   playground games, especially when you consider all the children's games
   worldwide. The following list, however, includes many simple and
   classic outdoor playground games that children have played in
   schoolyards for generations:

--
1. Dodge Ball

   Dodge Ball is a great game to get students active. Two evenly-numbered
   teams line up their dodgeballs in the middle of a court and retreat to
   each end. On the signal, they rush to the center to grab a ball and
   throw it at opposing players, eliminating them from the game. The team
   that eliminates all players from the other team wins the game.

2. Double Dutch

   A popular jump rope game, Double Dutch, requires at least three people.
   Two players swing jump ropes in opposite directions, while the third
   player jumps between them without disrupting them. Players often chant
   or sing a rhyme to help time the jumps. This is a great game to teach
   kids to coordinate with others.

3. Heads Up Seven Up

   Heads Up Seven Up is a classic classroom game in which seven "choosers"
   make their way around a group of players who have their heads down and
   one thumb raised. Each chooser taps one thumb, and the players try to
--
   One player chooses an object and says, "I spy with my little eye,"
   giving a description of the item like its color. Players take turns
   guessing what the item is. Use this game to help students develop their
   investigative skills.

--
Jack Playground Game Jack Playground Game

   Another great game to play on the playground is jacks. Players need
   jacks and a small rubber ball for jacks. Players bounce the ball on the
   ground and catch a set number of jacks in the opposite hand,
--
7. Jump Rope

   A good game for a single child or a team, jump rope has nearly endless
   variations. Players swing and jump over a rope, seeing how many jumps
   they can make without touching it.
--
8. Kickball

   Kickball is one of the most popular outdoor games for kids. The game is
   similar to baseball, except players kick a dodge ball instead of
   swinging a bat.
--
   Don't have a hot potato on hand? No problem! Students can play hot
   potato on the playground with a ball or soft object. Students stand in
   a circle and pass the ball. If they drop it, they are out. The game
   continues until there is only one player standing.

--

   Charades is an excellent way for kids to use their imagination. To make
   gameplay simple, you will need 2 small containers and some paper
   scraps.

--
The Benefits of Kids Games

   With childhood obesity rising in America, active games are particularly
   important for kids to play. Activities that utilize playground
   equipment, jump ropes or other body movements help get kids moving.
   When kids are inactive during their recesses at school and spend their
   free time at home playing video games and watching TV instead of going
   outside, they are developing behaviors that could hold them back for
   the rest of their lives.
--
   beneficial because they help to strengthen mental and social
   skills that will come in handy as they enter middle school, high
   school, college and the job market. The games that kids play on the
   school and park playground offer many benefits, whether they're
   creative games that use their imagination or active games that work out
   their body. Children should be encouraged to play these simple
   playground games as much as possible.

   Shop Playground Equipment From Miracle Recreation Shop Playground
--
Shop Playground Equipment From Miracle Recreation

   Playground games are a vital part of a child's development, and as a
   bonus, they're fun! With a list of entertaining indoor or outdoor games
   for kids, you can help them grow in important ways.
