
   One of the best parts of being a dog owner is finding fun and
   constructive games for dogs. Engaging in physically and mentally
   stimulating exercise with your dog is a great way to keep them healthy.
   It also strengthens your bond.

   Whether it’s games to play with your dog inside or outside, teaching
   your dog interactive games with treats as a reward or discovering
   mental games for dogs, there are many ways to keep your dog (and you)
   entertained virtually anywhere

--
1. Fetch

   Almost every dog gets excited over a game of fetch, as it’s a classic
   game for humans and dogs alike. All you need is a yard, park or field,
   a tennis ball or frisbee and an enthusiastic dog to have some fun.

   Fetch is an excellent game for energetic dogs. It provides plenty of
   physical exercise while helping them fulfill their instinct to run. It
   can also keep your dog mentally engaged and challenged by trying
--
2. Tug of War

   Another classic game most dogs love is playing tug of war. Great for
   both indoor or outdoor play, tug of war is fun and engaging for your
   dog. Plus, all that pulling and tugging is a good source of physical
   exercise. Avoid overexciting your dog with this game, and don’t let
   children play this one.

--
3. Hide the Treat or Hide & Seek

   If you’re looking to play mentally stimulating mind games for dogs, you
   can’t go wrong with hide the treat. This dog enrichment game is a fun
   way for them to exercise their problem-solving skills. Simply leave a
   trail by rubbing the treat on a few spots along the way to its hiding
--

   Unleash your dog’s natural hunting instincts in a positive way that
   won’t result in local squirrels scampering up a tree. This game uses a
   flirt pole. A flirt pole is a long pole or stick with a rope attached
   to one end. You can either purchase a flirt pole or make one with a
--
Avoid Overstimulation

   There are lots of games to play with dogs both inside and outside.
   Having fun with your dog enriches both of your lives but avoid play
   that’s too aggressive or leads to overstimulation.
