   An op-ed article appeared recently in the The New York Times
   discussing the Supreme Court’s decision to strike down California’s law
   barring the sale or rental of violent video games to people under 18.
   The author, Dr. Cheryl Olson,   describes how the proposed law was
   based on the erroneous assumption that such games influence violent
   behavior in real life.

   Dr. Olson suggests that the deliberately outrageous nature of violent
   games, though disturbing, makes them easily discernible from real life
   and suggests that the interactivity could potentially make such games
   less harmful.

   She raises the question of how these two behaviors can be linked if
   youth violence has declined over the last several years while violent
   video game playing has increased significantly during the same period.

   This analysis ignores the fact that such variation may be explained by
   factors other than the link between the two. A spurious variable–a
   third variable that explains the relationship between two other
   variables—may explain the negative correlation of video game playing
   and violent behavior. As one example, socioeconomic status may explain
   both a decline in violent behavior and an increase in video game
   playing. More affluent youth have the means and time to buy and play
   video games, which keeps them safely inside while avoiding potentially
   violent interactions on the street.  Dr. Olsen also cites several
   studies that have failed to show a connection between violent video
   game playing and violent behavior among youth.

   This conclusion, however, may not be as clear cut as it appears.
--
   ).  Although the Columbine tragedy and others like it make the
   headlines, youth are killed everyday by the hands of another.  A more
   critical analysis of the link between video game playing and violence
   is necessary for fully understanding a complex problem like youth
   violent behavior that has many causes and correlates.

Studies support a link between violent video games and aggressive behavior

   Researchers have reported experimental evidence linking violent video
   games to more aggressive behavior, particularly as it relates to
   children who are at more sensitive stages in their socialization.
   These effects have been found to be particularly profound in the case
--
       Adolescents, Anderson, Gentile, and Buckley provide an in depth
       analysis of three recent studies they conducted  comparing the
       effects of interactive (video games) versus passive (television and
       movies) media violence on aggression and violence.
          + In one study, 161 9- to 12-year olds and 354 college students
            were randomly assigned to play either a violent or nonviolent
            video game.  The participants subsequently played another
            computer game in which they set punishment levels to be
            delivered to another person participating in the study (they
            were not actually administered).  Information was also
            gathered on each participant’s recent history of violent
            behavior; habitual video game, television, and move habits,
            and several other control variables.  The authors reported
            three main findings: 1) participants who played one of violent
            video games would choose to punish their opponents with
            significantly more high-noise blasts than those who played the
            nonviolent games; 2) habitual exposure to violent media was
            associated with higher levels of recent violent behavior; and
            3) interactive forms of media violence were more strongly
--
            variables, and aggressive behaviors of an adolescent
            population.  High school students (N=189) completed surveys
            about their violent TV, movie, and video game exposure,
            attitudes towards violence, and perceived norms about violent
            behavior and personality traits.  After statistically
            controlling for sex, total screen time and aggressive beliefs
            and attitudes, the authors found that playing violent video
            games predicted heightened physically aggressive behavior and
            violent behavior in the real world in a long-term context.
          + In a third study, Anderson et al. conducted a longitudinal
            study of elementary school students to examine if violent
            video game exposure resulted in increases in aggressive
            behavior over time.  Surveys were given to 430 third, fourth,
            and fifth graders, their peers, and their teachers at two
            times during a school year.  The survey assessed both media
            habits and their attitudes about violence.  Results indicated
            that children who played more violent video games early in a
            school year changed to see the world in a more aggressive way
            and also changed to become more verbally and physically
--
       These included experimental laboratory work, cross-sectional
       surveys and longitudinal studies.  Overall, they found consistent
       associations between playing violent video games and many measures
       of aggression, including self, teacher and parent reports of
       aggressive behavior.  Although the correlations were not high
--
       suggested in the 2001 Surgeon General’s Report on youth violence.

Violent video games may increase precursors to violent behavior, such as
bullying

   Although playing violent video games may not necessarily determine
   violent or aggressive behavior, it may increase precursors to violent
   behavior.  In fact, Dr. Olson points out that violent video games may
   be related to bullying, which researchers have found to be a risk
   factor for more serious violent behavior. Therefore, video game playing
   may have an indirect effect on violent behavior by increasing risk
   factors for it.  Doug Gentile notes that the only way for violent video
   games to affect serious criminal violence statistics is if they were
   the primary predictor of crime, which they may not be.  Rather, they
   represent one risk factor among many for aggression
   (http://www.apa.org/monitor/2010/12/virtual-violence.aspx).

Should video games be regulated?

   L. Rowell Huesmann (2010) points out that violent video game playing
   may be similar to other public health threats such as exposure to
   cigarette smoke and led based paint .  Despite not being guaranteed,
--
   (and other lead-based products such as gasoline) because it is a risk
   factor for negative health outcomes.  Huesmann argues the same analysis
   could be applied to video game exposure.  Although exposure to violent
   video games is not the sole factor contributing to aggression and
   violence among children and adolescents, it is a contributing risk
   factor that is modifiable.
--
   fighting and conflict) increases the risk for youth violent behavior,
   but does not necessarily result in violent children. Likewise,
   researchers have found that first person killing video game playing is
   associated with increased risk for violent behavior, but not all the
   time. Yet, constant exposure to violence from multiple sources,
   including first person violent video games, in the absence of positive
   factors that help to buffer these negative exposures is likely to
   increase the probability that youth will engage in violent behavior.

   Despite disagreements on the exact nature of the relationship between
   violent video game playing and violent or aggressive behavior,
   significant evidence exists linking video game playing with violent
   behavior and its correlates.  Although we are somewhat agnostic about
   the role of social controls like laws banning the sale of violent video
   games to minors, an argument against such social controls based on the
   conclusion  that the video games have no effect seems to oversimplify
   the issue. A more in-depth and critical analysis of the issue from
   multiple perspectives may both help more completely understand the
