   I Refuse Agree

   graphic showing two video game characters playing soccer to illustrate
   in-game advertising

   Digital Advertising Trends  |  August 25, 2022July 11, 2023
--
   Erin Hynes

   There will be 179.6 million monthly gamers in the US this year—meaning
   more than half of the US population will identify as digital gamers by
   the end of 2022.

   Gamers are now nearly synonymous with everyday consumers, and it’s time
   for advertisers to pay attention. Advertising in video games, also
   known as in-game advertising, will help you tap into a growing and
   engaged audience.

   This upward trend points to the growing opportunity to reach engaged
   audiences through video game ads. In-game advertising leverages
   programmatic to enable ads to appear in mobile, computer, and video
   games. With blended in-game, ads are seamlessly integrated, so they
   don’t interrupt gameplay.

What Are In-Game Ads

   Blended in-game ads appear on in-game objects such as billboards,
   walls, jerseys, and more during gameplay. The goal of blended in-game
   advertising is to insert ads that get noticed while not interrupting
   the player’s enjoyment of the game.

   They are non-intrusive, highly-viewable and drive high brand recall.
   Blended in-game ads can be delivered through programmatic advertising
   on gaming consoles, mobile devices, or on PCs.

   Blended in-game inventory can be run at scale across impactful
   suppliers and platforms around the world.

What Are Two Common Blended In-Game Ad Units

   The most common formats that are leveraged in a blended in-game ad
   campaign are display and video ads. Let’s break them down:

--
   Display ads are typically a designed image or a photo combined with
   copy. They should be eye-catching enough to attract the attention of a
   gamer, and they should deliver a quick message.

   Since display ads are often small, it’s important to clearly
--
4 Benefits of Advertising in Video Games

   In-game advertising offers an opportunity to reach a growing and
   diverse audience. But, this isn’t the only benefit of leveraging this
   channel.

1. Reach a diverse audience of gamers.

   There isn’t a “one size fits all” for a typical gamer. Gaming audiences
   are incredibly diverse in their demographics. For example, a 2021 study
   showed that 55% of gamers identified as male, and 45% identified as
   female, and that most gamers range in age across a few generations
   (Source: Anzu, Q4 2021).

--
   diverse in their demographics, interests, and purchase intentions.

2. Leverage in-game ads to build brand awareness.

   In-game advertising helps you reach your target user in a
   non-disruptive, highly-viewable environment. You’re able to connect
   your brand with a captive audience who is unlikely to be multitasking,
   which increases the likelihood of brand recall and awareness.

   Building brand awareness is a valuable benefit of in-game ads because
   it helps you get closer to achieving a range of business objectives and
   goals. Brand awareness can expand your audience, increase website
--
   purchasing funnel.

3. Reach influential users who are playing video games.

   Gamers are savvy and influential. According to Anzu research, 51% of
   gamers advise others and 47% influence others. And, 46% try to be the
   first to know about new stuff, like emerging tech and new fashion.

   Advertising in video games enables you to reach influential gaming
   audiences in an emerging industry. And, gamers have spending power;
   those who play 10+ hours a week have 2x more disposable income than
   non-gamers.

4. Explore new programmatic advertising strategies.

   In-game advertising provides the opportunity to test unique ad formats
   that are exclusive to in-game environments. Plus, you can reach new
   audiences through emerging technologies.

   With this format, it’s important to optimize your ads for the gaming
   environment in order to maximize exposure and capture the attention of
   users. Creatives should be tailored to an in-game environment, so that
   the messaging fits within an in-game context.

Start Advertising in Video Games

   Are you ready to get into the game? By leveraging in-game advertising,
   you can reap the many benefits of this growing channel. You’ll reach a
   diverse and engaged audience, with an opportunity to build brand
   awareness.

   Advertising in video games is on the rise, and so now is the time to
   add it to your media mix. Get ahead of the game by testing in-game
   advertising strategies, now!

   Want to run exceptional in-game advertising campaigns? Request a demo
   to learn more about StackAdapt.
   graphic that reads "Download the Programmatic In-Game Advertising
--
You may also like:

   4 in-game advertising strategies
     * Campaign Tips

--
Digital Marketing Channels to Adopt in 2023

   a race car on a race track to illustrate in-game advertising
     * Digital Advertising Trends

--

   gif showing a race car moving back and forth on a track, like it would
   in a video game
     * Digital Advertising Trends
