   Learn more.

   Yes, you really can get paid to play video games.

   With the rise of Esports, Twitch, and professional gamers, there’s
   never been a better time to monetize your video game hobby.

   And the cool part is, you don’t have to be a pro. Even casual gamers
   are getting in on the action, and in this article I’ll break down some
   realistic ways to make money playing video games.

   How To Make Money Playing Video Games
--
   education platform has both academic and extracurricular classes.

   In the extracurricular category, video game classes are a hot seller.
   Why? Parents love the idea of a safe, nurturing online environment for
   their kids.

   I connected with Devyn Ricks, a mom of 4, in this video, where she
   reported earning up to $4000 a month playing video games on Outschool!

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/Hs98Xu83ves
--
2. Play-to-Earn Game Apps

   Several smartphone apps let you make money playing video games in your
   spare time. Here are a few of Side Hustle Nation’s top picks.

Bingo Cash

   The popular Bingo Cash game app turns classic bingo from a game of luck
   into a game of speed and skill.

   Each game only takes about 2 minutes to play, and you can earn
   real-world rewards and cash prizes (except in AR, IA, LA, SC, and WA).

--
   rewarded play app

   Rewarded Play is your one-stop app for casual games like Solitaire,
   Mahjong, Wheel of Fortune, Yahtzee, and more. As you play, choose your
   rewards and get your gift cards within 48 hours.
--

   The well-rated Android and iOS (4.6-stars from over 250k App Store
   reviews) game app pits you against similarly-skilled solitaire players.
   Everyone receives the same deck, and top 3 players who finish with the
   most points win.
--

   With more than 10 million downloads, Mistplay is an interesting app
   that rewards you for discovering and playing new games on your phone.

   mistplay app
--
   those units for gift cards to your favorite stores.

   Check out the games with 3x or 4x unit “multipliers” to earn gift cards
   faster.

3. Video Game Testing

   Before video games get released to the general public, they go through
   quite a bit of play testing. This is where your vast experience comes
   into play!

   Knowing how a great game should work and providing that feedback to the
   developers can be super valuable.

   If you like game apps on your phone, KashKick may be worth a look. At
   press time, they were offering $90-120 to play certain games and reach
   specific milestones.

   kashkick get paid to play games

   Similarly, Cash Giraffe (Android only) connects you with new games that
   are trying to attract more players. The app tracks the time you spend
   playing and rewards you for hitting certain milestones.
--
   Store.

   In addition, some people actually turn game testing into their career!
   Most game companies hire quality assurance (QA) testers to spot bugs
   and other issues with games before they go on sale.

   A quick search on Indeed found a number of job postings with salaries
--
4. Video Game Coaching

   Video game coaching is a great option if you have a deep understanding
   and passion for specific games.

   You can instruct other gamers through tutorials, screen-sharing
   walkthroughs, and group classes. Wouldn’t it be cool to get paid to
   share your tips, tricks, and advice?
--

   An alternative would be to set up some coaching gigs on Fiverr for your
   favorite games, or try and find clients locally.

   When creating your profile, put yourself in your potential customer’s
   shoes. Why should they hire you? What video game credentials do you
   have?

   Your rates will vary based on your experience, the popularity of the
   game, and competition.

   Most video game coaches charge by the hour — usually in the
   $20-200/hour range. However, you could earn even more with group
   classes.
--
5. All Skill Level Video Game Tournaments

   You’ve probably heard of elite gamers winning big prize money from
   top-level video game tournaments. GameChampions lets players of all
   skill levels in on the excitement.

   get paid to play video games with gamechampions

   They use a “Fair Play Guarantee” to match you with players of similar
--

   GameChampions is open to players 18 and older, but play-to-win money
   games aren’t available in all geographic areas. The company will give
   you a $5 sign-up bonus when you create your account.

6. Video Game Reporting

   Another way to make money through your love of playing video games is
   to become a video game journalist.

   The role involves reporting on video game news, upcoming games, writing
   game reviews, and even reporting from e-sport tournaments.

   The two most common paths to get paid here are either as a staff writer
--

   YouTube is still a popular platform that you can make money playing
   video games. Several avid gamers have created their own YouTube channel
   and stream their live gameplay or broadcast recorded videos that rely
   on followers and subscribers.

--

   In addition to streaming, you can create:
    1. gameplay tutorials
    2. engaging video game reviews
    3. helpful gameplay tips

   Followers can recommend you to their gaming friends and the revenue can
   quickly become substantial. Video game YouTubers monetize with a
   combination of:
     * YouTube ad income
--
     * Merchandise and product sales

   Typical advertising income for video game channels may be $3-5 for
   every 1,000 views. With a popular channel, that can add up fast!

--

   Twitch has become one of the most popular sites for gaming across the
   globe. It’s the go-to site for video gamers to earn money streaming
   their gameplay.

   As your following grows, you’ll start to earn subscription and donation
   revenue. Top streamers make 6- and even 7-figures a year!

   Twitch works best if you’re either very good at a certain game, and/or
   very entertaining to follow. Remember, you’re competing your followers’
   for limited attention, so the content needs to be really compelling.
--

   The rise of cryptocurrency and NFTs have opened up another revenue
   stream for video gamers.

   For example, in Axie Infinity, gamers raise, trade, and battle NFT pets
   known as Axies. As you level up, your characters become more and more
   valuable — and can be bought and sold.

   The in-game currency, Axie Infinity Shards, can then be bought or sold
   on exchanges like Coinbase.

--
   bought it.

   Video game guides or tutorials can show others how to complete tricky
   levels or improve their gameplay. It’s another way to convert your
   expertise into cash.

--
   course.

   This isn’t a video game example, but may still be relevant. Kat Norton
   created TikTok tutorials on how to use Excel better. Those went viral,
   and she ended up putting together an in-depth training program on Excel
--
   profitable business!)

   Could you do the same for your favorite game?

11. Sell Merchandise

   As a gamer, you you know that a love of video games can be part of your
   identity. That’s why game-themed or game-inspired merch can be such a
   hit.

--
   Redbubble to see what’s selling. You may not be allowed to use licensed
   characters in your design, but you can get creative to sell other
   products gamers would love.

   make money selling video game merch on redbubble

   Thanks to print on demand technology, you don’t have to carry any
--
12. Build Your Own Video Game or App

   How cool would it be to have your own popular game on the App Store? If
   you don’t have coding or game design experience, you can learn from
   top-rated courses like this one.

   Developers earn a 70% royalty on any sales of the app or in-app
   purchases. For a popular game, that can turn into a serious income
   stream.

--

   Should the proposal be a hit, you can use your own gaming skills to
   develop the game you have always wanted to play.

13. Be a Video Game Developer
--
   Be A Video Game Developer

   Your skills as a gamer can also be used behind the scenes as a video
   game developer. Becoming part of the video game industry itself can be
   a lucrative career choice and a video game developer is an in-demand
   skill.

   In this role, you’ll be responsible for turning game ideas into reality
   through code and collaboration. Plus, per ZipRecruiter, game developers
   earn an average of $100,000 a year.

14. Teach Video Game Design

   If you already have some experience in how video games are made, you
   could turn around and teach others. Instructors can make money teaching
   video game design techniques and basic coding vocabulary and concepts.

   If you like working with kids, take a look at Outschool. Here you’ll
   create an engaging class for future game designers and developers.

   If your content is better for adults, you might create a pre-recorded
--
15. Be a Professional Gamer

   Do you have the skills to go pro? There are video game tournaments
   across the globe, often with serious prize money on the line.

   Choose a game you know you’re great at, look for some local or online
   tournaments to get experience, and keep leveling up.

   While elite-level gamers earn millions of dollars, the majority are
   just scraping by. This is similar to professional sports or acting,
   where the average income is quite low, but the pursuit of getting paid
--

   ESports — short for electronic sports — is a form of competition where
   you can earn prizes by playing video games.

   The typical format involves professional players that compete against
--
   has developed in the last decade or so.

   As more gamers want to see competitions featuring their favorite games,
   more game developers have started competitions to showcase their games
   and provide funding for those tournaments.

   Typically, the games that are involved in competitions are first-person
   shooters, multiplayer online battle arenas, battle royale, fighting,
   real-time strategy, and sports.

   If you excel in competition and need to push the boundaries in a
   particular game or format then there are several e-sport franchises to
   choose from. These include Dota, Counter-Strike, League of Legends,
   Valorant, Overwatch, Super Smash Bros., StarCraft, and Street Fighter.
--
Getting Paid to Pay Video Games: Final Thoughts

   You can turn your love of video games into a money-making hobby. There
   are opportunities to get paid:
     * playing
--
   Which option is right for you depends on your unique skills, interests,
   and goals. But one thing is certain: the days of your parents telling
   you that playing video games is a waste of time are over!

Serious About Making Extra Money?
--
How Can I Get Sponsors For My Video Game Playing?

   Once you establish a following for your video game playing, consider
   contacting sponsors directly. Focus on specific brands you’re already a
   customer of that you know your audience will love. Impress them with
--
Companies?

   Typically, a customer service representative for a video game company
   will make between $13.50 to $20 an hour.

   Customer support and customer service are essential factors for any
   company. If you know your way around a certain game, you can help
   customers and deliver support via an in-game chat function. You may
   want to consider an internship first if you want to go on this career
   path.
--
       it’s name was still Zareklamy. Anyway, the app has a huge following
       and great amount of positive ratings. You can earn money in
       Paidwork by playing mobile games, filling surveys, watching videos,
       creating accounts and doing online shopping. I’d recommend it
       myself to at least give it a try, I’ve tried and I’m happy about it
--
   Katheryn woodall
       February 9, 2023 at 11:54 am
       I love to play a lot of games and I want to make money from it but
       don’t know how can you help
       Reply
--
   Asithandile
       April 22, 2023 at 8:38 am
       I love playing game but I want to make profit from it but don’t
       know home help please
       Reply
--
   fork
       May 5, 2023 at 5:03 am
       https://gamercoach.gg/ pays more for coaches
       Reply
