<lang="EN">

<page="EN-1">
<text>
   GAME

25 best video GAME to help you socialise while self-isolating

   If the coronavirus means you're facing weeks stuck at home, blasting
--

   In this time of quarantine and isolation, we all need to keep up both
   our social interactions and our spirits. Playing video GAME with
   friends online is the perfect solution. You don't have to be good at
   them, that's not the point - online GAME provide a location to meet
   up, chat and have experiences together that may or may not involve
   blowing stuff up.

   Here is a range of titles that can be learned and enjoyed by both
   complete beginners and veteran gamers. Whether you have an old laptop
   or the latest smartphone, there's something here you can play with pals
   even if they're far away.

Console GAME - Keith Stuart

   The Xbox One and PlayStation 4 are excellent machines for playing with
--
   intuitive "Party Chat" functions which let you talk to your friends via
   a gaming headset while playing - in fact you can chat between GAME
   too, or even while watching Netflix on your console. Things are a bit
   more complicated on Nintendo Switch which requires you to download a
   mobile phone app in order to chat with friends, but even then only a
   minority of GAME support the feature. So all our recommendations are
   primarily based on Xbox and PlayStation.

   Minecraft
   (PC, PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, smartphone)
   The most popular video GAME in the world allows groups of eight players
   to meet online, explore vast blocky worlds and construct amazing
   buildings together. Think of it as a cross between a Lego set and a
   fantasy adventure. You and your friends could collaborate on a project
   - such as building a scale model of the Taj Mahal - or play one of the
   competitive mini-GAME. It'll keep you occupied for months.

   Fortnite: Battle Royale
--
   missions together, all taking on different roles - just like an
   interactive crime movie. At least one of you will need to have played
   the GAME before and reached the appropriate skill level, but playing
   with a mostly amateur and unfamiliar crew offers hours of knockabout
   slapstick fun. For a more sedate experience, Read Dead Online does
--
   (PC, PS4, Xbox One)
   Okay, the title is pretty grim, but this four-player cooperative
   survival GAME is strangely endearing. The idea is to survive in a
   hostile world as long as possible, gathering natural resources in order
   to make fires, cook food and craft weapons to fight off the extremely
--
   which of your friends you can rely on in a life-or-death situation.

Mobile GAME - Stuart Dredge

   The paradox of "mobile gaming" is that much of it happens when people
   aren't mobile at all: they're sitting on the sofa, lying in bed or
   (caveat: not recommended) perched on the loo. Most of these GAME will
   run happily on a recent (say, from the last three or four years) iPhone
   or Android smartphone, although a couple of them - Sociable Soccer and
--
   Words With Friends Classic
   (iOS/Android)
   One of the oldest mobile GAME still being actively supported - it was
   first released in 2009 - Words With Friends could be a marvellous tonic
   for anyone in self-isolation. You can have a bunch of its turn-based
   Scrabble-like matches going on at once, including in-GAME chat - and if
   your real-life friends aren't playing, it'll match you up with
   strangers.
--
   Clash Royale
   (iOS/Android)
   Now four years old, this is one of the GAME I've tended to play
   heavily for a while, then drop out of for a year before firing it up
   again, and spending a week getting royally duffed up while I get to
--
   strategic battles remains magic. But also because its clans system,
   where you can band together with friends for friendly matches and
   card-swapping, is one of the better mobile-GAME recreations of
   real-world networks.

   (iOS/Android)
   Wait a second! A GAME that involves walking lots outside, at a time
   when we may soon be encouraged to stay inside? Stay with me. Developer
   Niantic is making some changes designed to make the GAME fun to play
   even if you're stuck at home. More beasties will be spawning around
   you, and incense packs (which attract more of them) will be
--
   Sociable Soccer
   (iOS)
   You can guess a football-loving gamer's age by whether they go
   misty-eyed at the mention of Sensible Soccer. Some of the team behind
   that series are back together for Sociable Soccer, an Apple Arcade
   exclusive. It's more than just an homage to Sensi's wonderful
   pinball-esque gameplay either: there's an inventive card-based
   team-building system and a meaty 60-hour campaign mode to keep anyone
   busy. Plus there's a new online multiplayer option, which right now is
--
   (iOS/Android)
   Something I gravitated towards for this particular roundup was mobile
   GAME that do more than simply let you play against other people
   online. The latest in Gameloft's Asphalt racing series is a good
   example: it has a "club" feature where you can create your own driving
--
   Kahoot!
   (iOS/Android)
   This isn't a traditional GAME: it's a website (and apps) for playing,
   creating and sharing multiple-choice trivia quizzes about... well,
   about pretty much any topic you can think of. Designed to be used by
--
   home-learning tools.

PC GAME - Jordan Erica Webber

   If you don't usually play many computer GAME, an easy way to get
   started is to download the hugely popular platform Steam, but you can
   also buy and download GAME straight to your computer from online
   stores such as GOG.com (which has a great collection of classics as
   well as more modern GAME) and itch.io (which specialises in GAME from
   independent creators). You can also use the free voice chat app Discord
   to talk to each other as you play and its screen share feature allows
--
   Stardew Valley
   Windows/Mac (Steam/GOG)
   A soothing GAME that'll keep you occupied for dozens of hours. You and
   up to three others run a farm in a small village, carrying out tasks
   together or alone. Activities range from planting crops and caring for
--
   Tick Tock: A Tale for Two
   Windows/Mac (Steam/itch.io)
   To make the best of a bad situation, try a GAME that is better when
   you're not in the same place. In Tick Tock: A Tale for Two, you and the
   other player see different versions of the GAME's mystical world and
   must communicate effectively to solve the puzzles.

--
   Ticket to Ride
   Windows/Mac (Steam/itch.io)
   Board GAME nights are not easily replaced, but we can try. Tabletop
   Simulator is software that lets you play virtual board GAME online,
   but if you want to keep it simple then grab a copy of Ticket to Ride,
   the classic in which you compete to connect cities by rail.
--
   Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes
   Windows/Mac (Steam)
   To make your separation part of the GAME, try Keep Talking and Nobody
   Explodes, in which one of you has to defuse a bomb and one has the
   manual, but neither of you can see what the other can. It's frantic,
--
     * Xbox One
     * Nintendo Switch
     * Online multiplayer GAME
     * Minecraft
     * features
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-2">
<text>
   This blog explains that it is not just gaming disorder that needs to be
   addressed by helping professionals but the traumatic toxic experiences
   that clients are exposed to when playing video GAME.

How to identify gaming disorder
--
   At INTENTA, we categorize gaming into four stages which we call the
   gaming continuum:
    1. Recreational gaming: About 90% of gamers are casual players for
       whom gaming is a fun activity.
    2. At-risk gaming: About 10% of gamers fall more into the at-risk
       category and have some degree of problematic behavior.
    3. Problematic gaming: About 5% of gamers begin to experience negative
       consequences of their gaming behavior.
    4. Gaming disorder: 1-3% of gamers fall into this category, where
       gaming causes significant impairment in their life. Learn more in
       our article on gaming disorder prevalence.
--
Toxicity in gaming statistics

   Although there are many positive aspects of video GAME - such as
   increased psychological well-being and enhanced cognitive skills - hate
   and harassment are regular occurrences. A 2020 nationally
   representative survey^1 of US gamers aged 18-45 found that:
     * 81% of people who played online multiplayer GAME experienced some
       form of harassment, compared to 74% of gamers in the 2019 survey.
     * 68% of respondents experienced more severe abuse, including
       physical threats, stalking, and sustained harassment, up from 65%
       in 2019. That represents around 45 million online gamers in the US
       reporting significant harassment.
     * The video GAME where players experienced most harassment while
       playing were DOTA 2 (80%), Valorant (80%), Rocket League (76%),
       Grand Theft Auto (76%), Call of Duty (75%) and Counter Strike:
       Global Offensive (75%).
     * 53% of gamers who experienced harassment were targeted because of
       their race/ethnicity, religion, ability status, gender or sexual
       orientation.
     * 41% of female gamers and 37% of LGBTQ gamers were harassed about
       their gender and sexual orientation.
     * 31% of Black gamers and 30% of Hispanic/Latinx gamers experienced
       in-GAME harassment because of their race or ethnicity.
     * 25% of Asian-American gamers experienced harassment based on their
       identity.
     * 25% of disabled gamers were targeted because of their disability.
     * 18% of Jewish gamers and 25% of Muslim gamers said they were
       subjected to harassment.
     * 28% of gamers who experienced harassment avoided certain GAME due
       to their hostile environments.

Why are online GAME so toxic?

   Players sometimes rationalize toxic gaming culture as a normal and
   acceptable part of gaming. Research has shown that toxic behavior is
   contagious^2 among players and exposure in previous GAME increases the
   likelihood that a player will commit toxic acts in future GAME. Also,
   more experienced and skillful players are more likely to engage in
   toxic and abusive behaviors than those who are new to gaming.
--
   This occurs when someone is reported to law enforcement for a crime
   they did not commit in the hope that the subsequent police raid is
   broadcast during a live streaming GAME.

Doxing
--
Griefing

   Griefing is deliberately harassing or disrupting the GAME of another
   player within a multiplayer environment. Often this anti-social
   behavior becomes the main goal of the GAME rather than winning. These
   players are known as griefers.

--

   This abuse can be used as a tactic to try to throw someone off their
   GAME. It is similar to tactics sometimes employed in athletic sport but
   it takes on a different level because, unlike athletic sport where
   there are coaches and psychologists to help deal with the consequences,
--
   There are several measures that players can take to avoid online
   toxicity, hate and harassment. These include:
     * Blocking and muting - Players can turn off or mute their in-GAME
       chat and decide if they want to continue with the GAME.
     * Reporting abuse - Most video GAME and gaming platforms have abuse
       reporting procedures.
     * Standing up against toxicity - Family, educators and friends should
       encourage gamers to stand up against online toxicity instead of
       fuelling a bystander culture where in-GAME hate and harassment is
       ignored and normalized.

--

   When helping professionals treat clients with gaming disorder it is
   important they understand the cultural context of video GAME. Many
   players presenting with problematic behaviors will have been negatively
   impacted by toxicity, harassment and other online abuse. This can lead
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-3">
<text>
   By Elizabeth M H Newbury, V Quidore &amp Ethan Hwang on February 22, 2023

   How can serious GAME be used to contribute to the Year of Open
   Science?
   Serious GAME Initiative
--
   Broadening engagement is one way of opening up science, and researchers
   have been turning to unique technology to facilitate that type of
   engagement: GAME. As a medium, digital GAME have wide use; the
   Entertainment Software Association estimates that in 2022, over 215
   million people in the United States played video GAME regularly.
   Research institutions have used GAME to not only reach new audiences
   but also speed up scientific research and make scientific discoveries,
   particularly within the field of medical science. As agencies and
   experts look to a Year of Open Science, learning from these
   examples--and looking to the future potentials of GAME supporting
   research--can help level up efforts.

Educational GAME for Leading Research Questions

   To understand how an agency can use GAME, let's look at two ways of
   implementing GAME. First, institutions can develop a new GAME that is
   framed around a particular research question. GAME can visualize data
   outside the lab, affording not only educational opportunities but
--
   Institute at the National Institutes of Health put on a series in a
   virtual conference called DataViz+Cancer that highlights some key
   considerations in using GAME-and other types of visualizations-in
   research. Two prominent examples illustrate this approach: Foldit and
   Eyewire. Both projects rely on crowd-sourcing data through a GAME to
   help accelerate research.

--
   Adobe, Boehringer Ingelheim, RosettaCommons)

   Foldit is a free-to-play puzzle GAME that challenges players to fold
   proteins. In doing so, players contribute to a dataset to help bring
   solutions to diseases like COVID-19, HIV, Alzheimers, and more. It is
   often the example by which GAME-based crowdsourcing projects measure
   themselves, in part due to its success: in less than three weeks in
   2011, participants solved the structure of an HIV-related protein that
--
   neuroscientists understand the mechanisms underlying motion perception.

   These GAME illustrate that for crowdsourcing, data needs to be not
   only fun for users to engage with, but also easily digestible and
   distributed. Importantly, the tasks are manageable. The GAME break
   down an overall research question into small, bite-sized problem sets
   with a finite task and focused data sets. Breaking down the data and
--
   massive participation.

   But what makes it a GAME is the employment of play-and competition-that
   everyone from researchers to science educators appreciate. In both
   instances the data becomes a "puzzle" for players to solve that are
--
   These mechanics not only motivate individuals, but in creating these
   forms of visible competition go one step further in developing a sense
   of community around the GAME that is so vital to long-term
   participation.

Commercial GAME Companies Collaborating with Research Institutions

   In addition to creating their own GAME, there is a growing interest in
   how researchers can also work with commercial GAME companies to engage
   existing audiences. An example of this is the collaboration around EVE
   Online. EVE Online is a massive multiplayer online roleplaying GAME
   that is perhaps best known for corporate espionage and heistsin a
   space-themed environment.According to a report from GAMEBeat in 2021,
   it boasts a unique user base of 25 million globally with approximately
   300,000-400,000 players concurrently. It is a commercial GAME that has
   opened its doors to crowdsourcing scientific research through themed
   content embedded in the GAME itself under a mini-GAME called "Project
   Discovery."

--
   The original EVE Online launched in 2003 as a space-based MMO, while
   Project Discovery, the citizen science project, originally launched as
   a mini-GAME within the GAME in 2016. Partners for the latest project,
   focusing on support for COVID-19, included McGill University, BD,
   Beckman Coulter, FlowJo, BC Cancer, Massively Multiplayer Online
--
   Protein Atlas (HPA), which aims to map proteins within human cells by
   cataloging different cell structures in over 250,000 images. In a
   recent version of the mini-GAME, players mapped flow cytometry by
   creating polygons around cells to help scientists understand immune
   response to COVID-19. By crowdsourcing this within EVE Online, as
--

   There are a few things that were attributed to this success. First,
   while an innovative mini-GAME, "Project Discovery" fits within the
   overall feel of the GAME, with mechanics similar to other in-GAME
   tasks. But this mini-GAME also hits home on a nuanced way of
   understanding player motivation: it isn't just about in-GAME rewards.
   In the same report from IGN, EVE Online Creative Director, Bergur
   Finnbogason pointed out three primary player types: those playing for
   in-GAME rewards, those playing because they were already deeply
   invested in EVE Online, and those playing for science.

   While a qualitative observation, studies have time and again
   demonstrated that motivation for GAME players is varied. Those wishing
   to capitalize on GAME as a way to build out scientific research should
   consider multiple ways of incentivizing participation. While in-GAME
   rewards most certainly help, some players will be motivated because it
   affords them an opportunity to deepen their engagement with the GAME
   and its story; others because it allows them to explore something new,
   like a fresh mechanic; and still others because it connects them to a
--
What's Next?

   These examples highlight ways that GAME have fostered the acceleration
   of scientific research while also expanding the scope of contributors
   to that research. In the case of Foldit and Eyewire, researchers
   leveraged GAME elements to make science more engaging and build a
   community that has made real-world impacts. In the case of EVE Online,
   an already popular GAME title was used to crowdsource data for health
   research. In both cases the research teams distributed the data to not
   only make it more adaptable for broad use, but transform it into a
   playful experience through puzzles and GAME mechanics. The key is to
   recognize both the broad possibilities of GAME and the diverse
   motivations and objectives of their players. Just like with any other
   medium, people play video GAME for a variety of reasons that can be
   tapped into to increase scientific engagement. Some gamers value points
   and in-GAME rewards while others seek opportunities to explore new
   horizons in the GAME or deepen their play. Some prefer supporting a
   broader community, while others relish competition. What's also
   important to know is that, at least in these cases, they can also
--
   External link
   Serious GAME
   Marketplace: At the Federal GAME Guild, video GAME and public policy
   play together
   STIP2
--
   External link
   Science and Technology
   Playing Global Order : Can video GAME reinforce good behaviours
   towards a better world?
   Wilson Center
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-4">
<text>

   The best legit money making apps can provide you with extra money you
   would not have otherwise just for takings surveys or playing GAME
   online.

   The web's #1 top app for taking surveys, watching videos, and playing
   GAME for cash online is Swagbucks. It's a well-built platform that is
   well-reviewed, and widely available for Android, iOS, and through your
   internet browser.
--

     * Best app for fast money: Swagbucks
     * Best variety of GAME &amp surveys: InboxDollars
     * Best for shopping rewards: Capital One Shopping
     * See more apps; read about the competition
--

   Swagbucks is perhaps the web's no. 1 venue for taking surveys, watching
   videos, and playing GAME for cash online. The platform is well-built,
   well-reviewed, and available for Android, iOS, and through your
   internet browser.
--
     * Where to play: Android, iOS, and swagbucks.com
     * Typical payout: ~$2-$3 per hour.
     * Cost to play: Free (most GAME)
     * Payout method: Gift cards via email, cash via PayPal

   Upon arriving at Swagbucks' GAME hub, you'll notice that some GAME
   offer cash and some offer cash back. It's worth clarifying that if you
   play popular GAME like Trivial Pursuit and Bejeweled 2 through
   Swagbucks you won't get paid, but SB will offer you a small rebate for
   cash you spend inside the GAME.

   In the second category, Swagbucks will actually pay you in cash or gift
   cards to play certain GAME. Some are recognizable, like Forge of
   Empires and Final Fantasy XV: A New Empire. Since you're effectively
   playtesting these GAME for developers, Swagbucks will pay you the
   equivalent of ~$2 per hour in points, which can be redeemed once you
   earn around $5 for a gift card or money into your PayPal account.

   Swagbucks' competitive advantage is the variety of non-GAME activities.
   As you accumulate points towards your next payout threshold, you can
   take a break from GAME and watch videos, take surveys, and more.

--

   InboxDollars is a money making app offering surveys, videos, and of
   course, GAME as ways to earn a few cents to a few bucks per hour, all
   on your own schedule.
   InboxDollars InboxDollars
--
   InboxDollars is a free app that offers a variety of ways to make money
   fast including surveys that pay between $0.50 and $5, earning cash back
   for playing GAME. You can even get paid for receiving and reading
   certain emails.
   Offer: Get an instant $5 Welcome Bonus for registering today!
--

   Create Free Account
     * Pros: Variety of GAME
     * Cons: Average earnings
     * Where to play: Android and inboxdollars.com
--
   Available as a site and Android app (the iOS app is for surveys only),
   InboxDollars makes up for below-average payout amounts with a sheer
   variety of GAME to play. Their extensive library includes classics
   like solitaire, mahjong, and sudoku, but also new mobile GAME in need
   of testing.

   If you're already addicted to simple browser and mobile GAME like the
   ones listed above, InboxDollars might be a no-brainer. You won't make a
   ton of money by only playing for an hour or two a day, but it adds up
   fast.

   Plus, if you tire of GAME, you can also switch over to watching videos
   or survey-taking as ways to accumulate InboxDollars on your way to
   their $30 minimum threshold. It'll take a while, but at least you'll
--
Mistplay

   Mistplay pays you to play new Android GAME and provides developers
   with feedback based upon your experience. Each 2- to 10-minute gaming
   session can reward the cash equivalent of $0.66.
--
   Mistplay pays out a little above average, and I admire the platform for
   being both developer- and user-friendly. First, to benefit developers
   who test their GAME through Mistplay, the app accelerates cash
   earnings the longer you test a GAME, so you're incentivized to play
   longer and provide better feedback to its creators. Second, Mistplay
   offers users a feature called the "Mix" whereby it'll generate a
--
   (puzzle, platforming, action, etc.).

   In total, Mistplay is a great place for gamers to test new GAME and
   help out developers while earning a trickle of cash for their efforts.
   As far as GAME-for-cash sites go, Mistplay seems among the most
   wholesome and well-intentioned.


   We investigated around three dozen popular GAME-for-cash sites. These
   don't make our top picks but still stood out as great options to
   consider.
--
   you make a deposit into your Long GAME account, whether automatic or
   manual, Long GAME will reward you for saving by giving you coins that
   you can use to play GAME.
     * Pros: Can incentivize more saving, potential jackpots can offset
       lower APY
--

   Long GAME might be a good fit if the lure of getting more coins to play
   GAME incentivizes you to save more in the long run.

--

   Honorable mention to some other great free apps out there that may
   branch out the realm of earning with surveys and GAME. These include
   Survey Junkie, Ibotta, Fiverr, Upwork, and OfferUp. They're worth
   checking out.
--
Givling

   Givling was the last GAME-for-cash site to be ejected from my final
   list. It wasn't easy, because I cheered for Givling. I wanted the app
   to be as good as it sounded.
--
   the queue every two weeks gets the jackpot.

   You can rise up the queue by watching ads and playing GAME, but also
   by buying products from Givling's sponsors and simply handing the app
   money.
--
Tip

Most GAME-for-cash sites are a waste of time at best and can fleece you out of
thousands at worst. If you're really interested in experimenting with this type
of website, you'll find safer havens in the options that I've highlighted.
--

   To create this list I investigated about three dozen of the most
   popular GAME-for-cash sites and apps. I graded each using a rubric
   combining multiple factors:
     * Legitimacy -- Is the app what it claims to be, or is it stealing
--
     * Cash payout -- Do users report actually receiving cash or free gift
       cards from the app?
     * Variety and quality of GAME -- Quite simply, are the GAME fun and
       varied?

   To my surprise, even some of the most popular GAME-for-cash apps
   failed stupendously in two of the most critical metrics: user reviews
   and cash payout.

   Many GAME-for-cash apps have glowing App Store reviews that are
   clearly fake and paid for. This really bothers me, because it means
   that rather than listen to their critical user feedback, developers
--
   doesn't care and neither should you.

   Next, some of the more popular GAME-for-cash apps have developed an
   insidious scheme whereby they cut off earnings just short of their
   payout threshold. For example, one app has a $10 minimum payout amount,
--
   These apps for are people looking to make extra income and earn rewards
   by completing activities they would have anyway while earning cashback
   or branching out with surveys and GAME. They're not for people looking
   to generate life-changing amounts of money.

--
   Anyways, despite having the less interesting name of the two, Coin Pop
   for Android is one quirky gaming app. On the surface it's pretty
   standard stuff: play GAME, reach "levels," convert level bonuses to
   cash.

--
   First, once you register, Coin Pop will ask your age and gender so it
   can offer you a preselected list of what it thinks are age- and
   gender-specific GAME (Coin Pop isn't gunning for Politically Correct
   App of the Year).

   Then, Coin Pop will prompt you to download GAME you'd like to play
   individually. This can take up some serious space on your hard drive,
   and since the ROI on certain GAME tends to drop off a cliff after a
   few sessions, you're encouraged to keep downloading new GAME
   constantly and sucking up your data.

--
   subjectively think they're a waste of time.

Why do GAME apps let you play for money?

   When you play GAME through apps like Swagbucks, Mistplay, or
   InboxDollars, they're paying you because you're watching ads or testing
   GAME for their clients, the developers.

   In essence, you're every child's dream: a paid video GAME tester. Even
   if you're not directly providing feedback via surveys, the developers
   are collecting background data like how long it took you to complete a
   certain quest, where you got lost, which items you used, etc. This is
   incredibly valuable data to mobile GAME developers, especially since
   they're competing to make the most playable and addictive GAME
   possible.

How much money can you make playing GAME online?

   Payouts from GAME-for-cash sites and apps can range from a few cents
   per hour to an entire $50,000 jackpot.

   On average, you can consistently make around $2 per hour playing GAME
   online.

   Overall, GAME-for-cash sites aren't much of an income generator, so I
   don't recommend that you play them for the money. Instead, play them
   for fun and enjoy the trickle of cash as a side bonus.
--

   In some cases, these sites may redirect you to third-party apps or
   GAME. If so, follow these tips to protect your personal information,
   and don't hesitate to back out if you feel uncomfortable:
     * Add your phone number to the Do Not Call Registry
--
Summary: Best apps to make money fast

   "Play GAME for cash" sounds too good to be true, and it mostly is. The
   majority of GAME-for-cash sites are junk, luring users in with fake
   review scores and teasing them with cash payouts that will never come.
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-5">
<text>
Rules

     It is a basic paradox of GAME that while the rules themselves are
     generally definite, unambiguous, and easy to use, the enjoyment of a
     GAME depends on these easy to use rules presenting challenges that
     cannot be easily overcome.
     -- Jesper Juul

   GAME are structured activities that are governed by a set of rules.
   The rules of a GAME define how the GAME is played, what actions are
   allowed or prohibited, and how players should behave. They provide a
   framework for the GAME and help to ensure that it is fair and enjoyable
   for all players.

   Rules are an integral part of GAME, and they serve a variety of
   purposes. One of the main purposes of rules is to establish a level
   playing field for all players. By defining the parameters of the GAME,
   rules help to ensure that everyone is playing by the same set of rules
   and that no one has an unfair advantage. Rules can also help to make
   GAME more predictable and strategic, as players can plan their moves
   based on a clear understanding of what is and is not allowed.

   Additionally, rules can help to create a sense of structure and order
   in GAME, which can make them more enjoyable and satisfying to play.
   Finally, rules can help to promote sportsmanship and good behavior in
   GAME, as they define how players should interact with each other and
   how they should behave.

   In one sense, rules in GAME are completely arbitrary, because they can
   be anything we make up. But in another sense, they are not arbitrary,
   in the sense that they are not chosen randomly or without purpose, and
   we must obey them in order to play the GAME properly. Rather, the rules
   of a GAME are typically carefully designed to create a specific type of
   gameplay experience and to achieve specific goals or objectives.

   For example, the rules of a board GAME might be designed to create a
   balance between strategy and luck, to make the GAME challenging but
   also fair for all players. The rules of a video GAME might be designed
   to create a sense of immersion and to make the GAME more realistic or
   believable.

   In some cases, the rules of a GAME may be modified or altered in order
   to achieve a specific goal or to make the GAME more enjoyable. However,
   even in these cases, the changes to the rules are generally not
   arbitrary, but rather are made with a specific purpose in mind.

   Creating a set of rules requires you to mentally switch back and forth
   between the GAME's rule framework and the experience that will be
   provided to the followers, er, I mean players, of your rule set. When
   creating rules and GAME, you'll frequently think in diagrammatic
   languages, whereas what the players experience is not your wireframes
   and logic flows, but a world of images, sounds, spaces and objects to
--
   constitutive rules.

   Constitutive Rules are what count as legal and fair in the GAME. Any
   attempt to circumvent these restrictions is dishonest.

   A Rule of Infraction, like an offsides call or a foul ball, are an
   integral aspect of the GAME. Strategic infractions include the
   intentional fouling of an opponent for tactical or time-buying purposes
   (like with personal fouls in basketball). GAME, however, wouldn't
   normally permit players to cheat or otherwise violate the laws of the
   GAME.

   The Rules of Skill are recommendations rather than mandates about how
   to play the GAME. For instance, it's illogical to allow players to
   score against themselves (perform own-goals), but it is often possible
   to do so nonetheless.
--
Mechanics

   A GAME mechanic is a specific rule or set of rules that defines how a
   GAME functions and how players interact with it. GAME mechanics are an
   essential part of GAME design and can have a major impact on the
   gameplay experience.

   There are many different types of GAME mechanics, and they can vary
   widely depending on the type of GAME. Some common examples of GAME
   mechanics include:

   Resource management: This involves managing and using resources, such
   as money or resources in a GAME, in order to achieve a goal.

   Chance: This involves using elements of chance, such as dice rolls or
   shuffled decks of cards, to determine the outcome of events in a GAME.

   Strategy: This involves making strategic decisions and planning ahead
--

   Role-playing: This involves assuming the role of a specific character
   or persona and acting out that role within the context of the GAME.

   Whereas computer GAME systems can readily hide their mechanisms which
   have to be uncovered through interaction, board GAME nearly always
   have their mechanics laid bare for the player in the rulebook.
   Everything that occurs between the first few turns and someone winning
   the GAME is categorizable as a GAME mechanic.

   The GAME's mechanics can alter the GAME state, the options available to
   players, and even other GAME mechanics. The mechanics of a GAME can
   either be predetermined by the system or determined by the players
   themselves. If a mechanic leaves no room for player agency, then that
   mechanic is system-driven, which is more common in video GAME than in
   board GAME, since the latter tend to put the onus of all
   decision-making on the players themselves.

   The mechanics of video GAME are frequently easy to figure out by
   observation and experimentation; in many cases, you don't even need to
   read the manual before getting started. This is where mobile GAME can
   be particularly engaging: the small screen gives the player only a
   limited amount of room to move their thumb and eyes over the screen.
   Rules aren't always necessary in mobile GAME because players have so
   few options on how to interact with the GAME.

   We should probably define GAME mechanics more formally now:

     GAME mechanics are methods invoked by agents for interacting with
     the GAME world. ("Defining GAME Mechanics," GAMEtudies.org)

   Actions in a GAME require mechanics, such as the ability to roll dice,
   leap, battle, push buttons, take turns, etc. Mechanics can also be
   thought of as a system of rules designed to achieve a specific goal.
--
   However, since computer graphics frequently adopts animation
   aesthetics, we shouldn't be surprised if real-world physics is often
   distorted in digital GAME, for aesthetic and experiential effect;
   animation in film has always relied on highly exaggerated movements
   because the goal is typically not to faithfully represent natural
   phenomena but rather to express something more human and emotional, and
   this practice continues with video GAME.

Further Reading &amp Exploring

   Source: https://www.igi-global.com/dictionary/GAME/11820Links to an
   external site.

   GAME are structured activities that are governed by a set of rules.

   https://www.slideshare.net/dmullich/lafs-GAME-mechanics-narrative-eleme
   nts-84405950Links to an external site.

   There are many different types of GAME mechanics, including resource
   management, chance, strategy, competition, cooperation, and
   role-playing.
--
   What is a GAME?

   EuroGAME vs AmeriGAME

   The GAME State, Information &amp Movement
--
     * GAME Mechanics: Advanced GAME Design by Ernest Adams and Joris
       Dormans
     * GAME Writing: Narrative Skills for VideoGAME edited by Chris
       Bateman
     * GAME, Design and Play: A detailed approach to iterative GAME
       design by Colleen Macklin and John Sharp
     * Introduction to GAME Systems Design by Dax Gazaway
--

A brief introduction to GAME Design Patterns, a way to visualize and create
mechanics for your GAME
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-6">
<text>
     * (BUTTON) More

   The best card GAME to play with a standard deck | CBC Life Loaded
   Culture

The best card GAME to play with a standard deck

   This list will have you suggesting card night every chance you get!
--
Social Sharing

   [card-GAME.jpg]
   (Credit: iStock/Getty Images)

   Card GAME have entertained people for centuries and have always been a
   great way to pass time. They're social, portable and inexpensive
   (unless you're gambling with money), and the rules are easy to learn.
   For me, card GAME were integral to my childhood: I grew up playing
   cards with my parents and three siblings. I was six years old when I
   played my first card in a GAME of Crazy Eights, and I've dealt
   countless hands since then.

   I'm passionate about a wide variety of GAME, whether they be board,
   tabletop or card GAME, and the ones listed here are what I've played
   most often and that bring back the best memories. If you decide to play
   them, I hope they serve you similarly well. They range from the
--
   52-card deck.

Card GAME for 2 people

   Most multiplayer card GAME can be scaled up or down to accommodate
   more or fewer players and the GAME mentioned here are no exception.
   There are variations for three people, but they're at their best when
   you play with just two.
--
   500 Rummy

   This is one of my favourite GAME because it doesn't take long to play;
   the rules are simple; and there's the dramatic possibility of starting
   out badly, but ultimately winning the GAME, and vice versa. It belongs
   to the rummy family of card GAME, which involve grouping cards
   together in certain sequences and sets. The objective is to be the
   first player to score 500 points.
--
   of the same suit (e.g. 10, jack, queen of spades).

   The GAME is played in rounds, which end when one player has no cards
   left in their hand. The catch is if you still have cards in your hand
   at the end of the round, the value of those cards is deducted from your
--
   Even if you've never played cribbage before, you might know it involves
   a board to keep score. I love the board because it's such an iconic
   part of the GAME, but you don't have to have one to play. There have
   been times when I haven't had a board nearby, and I've kept score with
   pen and paper.
--
   either total), earned by forming groups of two or more cards of the
   same value, runs, and card combinations that add up to 15. The running
   total can't exceed 31 during play. It's a quirky GAME with three phases
   in which you can score points, but it's not nearly as complicated as it
   sounds.
--

   Cribbage is the perfect balance of strategy and luck. With the discard
   rule at the start of the GAME, you have to determine your strategy
   before you know whether you'll be able to execute it. There is also a
   random card which is turned face up and which both players may count as
--

   These beloved classics are often played long into the night and are
   staples of veteran card tables. These GAME have endured particularly
   well because they're among the most social of card GAME and have
   become a part of pop culture through films, television and gaming.

--

   Popular in parts of Canada -- especially Ontario -- euchre is a
   trick-taking GAME for four people on two teams (though there are
   variations for between two and eight players). For a card GAME that
   forbids table talk, it's a surprisingly social GAME. The better you
   know your partner, the better your chances of winning. Trust in your
   partner is vital and as important as strategy.
--
   at the table or bluffing your way to victory with a lower-ranking hand
   and persuading other players to fold. Depending on whether you're
   playing at home or in a casino, the GAME can be as serious or as casual
   as you like.

--
   Hearts

   Like euchre, hearts is a trick-taking GAME. However, the objective is
   to take the fewest number of tricks and avoid scoring points. For this
   reason, it is known as a GAME of evasion. Three or more players may
   gather round a table for hearts, but it's most often played with four
   people.
--
   queen of spades scoring 13 points. It's a common strategy to lead with
   a low-ranking spade after the first trick to draw the queen out. The
   GAME ends when one player scores 100 points or more. All players tally
   up their points, and the person with the fewest wins.

--
   How to play hearts

The best GAME to play as a family

   Card GAME are a great way to support your kids' arithmetic and
   strategy skills -- but fun comes first. Many are suitable for children,
   but don't think that adults can't enjoy them too. Try some of these as
--
   mischief. I might be part of the generation who learned it first
   through the gaming site Neopets.com, but I have played my fair share of
   offline Cheat too. It's a highly satisfying GAME because there's
   nothing like knowing another player is cheating because you have the
   cards they claim to have.
--
   Fan Tan

   This is a GAME that my family used to close out card GAME night because
   it inherently reorders the deck and leaves it ready to be shuffled
   again for the next GAME night. It's straightforward: the objective is
   to get rid of all the cards in your hand by playing them in sequence.

--
    99

   This GAME is fast-paced and requires quick mental addition. Certain
   cards have designated values and actions, which can be written down on
   a cheat sheet for reference.
--
   other players struggle, and you can reverse the direction of play to
   save yourself when needed. It's best to save your smaller value cards
   and special cards until the end stages of the GAME so you have them
   when you need them.

   Children will enjoy the speed of the GAME and creating strategies to
   stay afloat when the value of the pile is high.

--
Personal recommendations

   All of the above GAME have a special place in my heart, but here are a
   couple you might not have heard of. I have fond memories of playing
   these with friends, family and strangers alike.
--
   Rummoli

   Rummoli, aka Tripoli, is a Canadian GAME that is part board GAME and
   part poker. It's a delight and my favourite GAME for a large group of
   people. It's light on strategy and heavy on fun.

   An ideal group for Rummoli is four to six players, but it can be played
   with as few as two and as many as eight. The more players there are,
   the faster the GAME goes.

   Ideally, you'd play with a Rummoli board, but if you don't have one,
   you can just mark designated spaces on a large piece of paper where
   players can place their chips. These areas correspond to different
   cards or sequences in the second phase of the GAME. Each player puts a
   chip on each space on the board. There's also a pot which goes to the
   winner of the poker phase. That phase is a traditional hand of poker;
   whoever has the highest-ranking hand wins.

   After the poker GAME, people play their cards in sequence. The twist is
   there's a "ghost" hand dealt, and cards from this hand cannot be
   played. There's a chance you won't be able to complete a sequence
--
   Spite and Malice

   I learned this GAME while I was on holiday in 2018. It's designed for
   two players, but can be played with more. (I learned a four-player
   version.) If you like to meddle with your opponents' strategy as much
   as trying to win for yourself, this is the GAME for you.

   The objective of the GAME is get rid of all the cards in your "payoff
   pile" by playing them on stacks in the centre of the table. The card on
   top of each player's payoff pile is always turned face up, so you know
--
   It can be gratifying to watch an opponent end their turn because it's
   their only possible move. Spite and Malice is one of the more strategic
   GAME listed here. It's a lot of fun; just be sure not to ruin any
   friendships while you're on your quest to win.

--

   Sebastian Yue is a Toronto-based writer, model, voice actor and player
   of many GAME. They are the author of Lake of Secrets, an adventure for
   Dungeons &amp Dragons (5th Edition), and they contributed two stories to
   the Chilling Tales from the Whispering Wind anthology. Sebastian has
   been playing card GAME since they were six years old. Follow them on
   Twitter here.

Related Stories

     * Just roll with it: How to move your in-person tabletop GAME online
     * The beginner's guide to the greatest pastimes: Cribbage
     * The beginner's guide to the greatest pastimes: Euchre
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-7">
<text>
40+ Great Card GAME For All Occasions

     * GAME, playing cards
     * December 10, 2018
     * Will Roya
--
   Holding them, feeling their embossed texture, and appreciating the
   intricate designs adds to the experience. Moreover, these decks are not
   just for admiration; they come alive when used for card GAME,
   cardistry, or magic tricks.

--

   But one of the best methods to enjoy these decks is by playing card
   GAME. Not only do you get the pleasure of using them, but others also
   get the chance to admire and enjoy their design. During GAME breaks,
   players can also appreciate the detailed artwork, which enhances the
   overall experience.

   Now, what GAME to play? While many are familiar with a few standard
   card GAME, there's a vast world of card GAME yet to be explored. Over
   the years, despite my extensive collection of modern GAME, I've found
   myself drawn to traditional card GAME, especially when I have a custom
   deck at hand.

   Here's a compilation of my top traditional card GAME, sorted
   alphabetically, and categorized for adults or children. At the end,
   I've listed books and resources on card GAME that I personally
   recommend. Each GAME's description includes its ideal player count.
   Notably, many of these GAME are perfect for just two participants.

   This list primarily focuses on traditional card GAME that have stood
   the test of time. While some recent GAME are mentioned, the primary
   goal is to highlight GAME that use a standard deck, rather than modern
   adaptations. Of course, there are countless other GAME playable with a
   standard deck; this list represents the most well-known and those I've
   personally enjoyed or recognize as classics.

   I hope this inspires you to explore beyond the usual and dive into some
   classic card GAME. Trust me, the journey is rewarding with many
   fantastic GAME awaiting discovery. For easy access to GAME rules, each
   GAME listed is linked to Pagat.com, an authoritative source for card
   GAME guidelines.
   People playing cards

Social and Family GAME

   This category is somewhat arbitrary in that some of the card GAME in
   the other categories can also be enjoyed socially or with children, and
   the GAME in this category are certainly not just for children. But if
   I was looking for a fun and lighter GAME that is easy to learn and
   play, these are all excellent choices.
   Blitz (2-12 players) - A popular and casual/social card GAME, also
   known as "Scat", "Thirty-One", "Ride the Bus", and "Blitz". By drawing
   and discarding a card each turn, the aim is to try to improve your
   three card hand to have the closest to 31 points in one suit.
   Cheat (3-13 players) - Also called "I Doubt It" or "Bullsh**", this is
   a GAME many children have played. The aim is to be the first to get rid
   of all your cards, and you can bluff about what cards you are playing
   on a turn, but if you get challenged and caught out you have to pick up
   the entire pile.
   Egyptian Ratscrew (2-6 players) - This is a quick-slapping GAME that is
   like Slap Jack on steroids, and has been published commercially under
   the name Slamwich.
--
   be the first to play all your cards.

   Golf (2-6 players) - A great casual GAME for two players that also
   works with 3 or more. There are many variations, the most common one
   being six card Golf, where everyone has a 3x2 grid of cards worth
--
   goal is to get the lowest score possible over nine holes or hands.

   GOPS (2 players) - A simple and quick bidding/bluffing GAME for two
   players. The Diamonds are point cards corresponding to their value, and
   revealed one at a time in random order. Players each get an entire suit
--
   simplified version of Whist, where the aim is to avoid elimination
   after each hand by winning at least one trick. The first hand has seven
   tricks, and it becomes harder to stay in the GAME because each
   successive hand has one less trick. A perfect GAME to introduce people
   to trick-taking.
   Mao (2-7 players) - This GAME has especially been popular in college
   and university crowds since the 1960s, and the aim is not just to win
   but to have fun. Essentially it is a Crazy Eights variant with special
   additions, but the rules may not be discussed; new players are expected
   to try to figure out the rules by observing a GAME and by trial and
   error. Theoretically there are overtones of Mornington Crescent,
   Fizzbin, and Calvinball, but Mao is actually a playable GAME.
   Palace (2-6 players) - Also called "Sh**head", "Karma" or "Idiot". A
   very light casual GAME, where the aim is to avoid being last to get rid
   of your cards. Players each have a row of three face down cards, a row
   of three face up cards covering these, and a hand of three cards. On
--
   President (3-16 players) - Classically known as "Chairman," "Scum," or
   "A**hole", and fun for groups, this is an easy introduction to the
   family of climbing GAME. The aim is to get rid of cards as soon as
   possible, and you must play at least as many cards as the previous
   player, but with higher values. Depending on the order in which players
   go out, a new hierarchy of players is established. A variation of this
   was published commercially as The Great Dalmuti. For more advanced
   climbing GAME, see Big Two later on this list.
   Ranter-Go-Round (3-12 players) - This is also known as "Screw Your
   Neighbor",  "Chase The Ace" or "Cuckoo", with slight variations. A
   simple GAME of passing cards around, with a high luck element, the
   player with the lowest card at the end loses a chip, and the aim is to
   avoid being eliminated by losing your chips.
   Rummy (2-6 players) - A classic card GAME, in which players draw and
   discard cards, trying to get "melds" that typically consist of sets of
   the same values or runs of consecutive values. Many variants exist,
   including Gin Rummy, which is an excellent GAME and appears later on
   this list, as well as some commercially published GAME like
   the Mystery Rummy series. Contract Rummy (3-5 players) also developed
   from Rummy, and adds the complication that in each round players have
--
   runs, that they must have before they can meld. A version of Contract
   Rummy was published commercially under the name Phase Ten.
   Scopa (2-6 players) - A fascinating classic Italian card GAME that is
   especially good for two players, and for four players as a partnership
   GAME called Scopone. Players are using cards in their hand to "capture"
   point-scoring cards from a common pool, with captured cards matching or
   adding up to the value of the card played from hand. Also recommended
--
   Scopa is Casino, which has gives some added options for play, and
   appears later on this list.
   Speed (2-4 players) - Also called "Spit", this a high speed GAME
   similar in style to Nertz (see later on this list), but slightly easier
   and more suitable for children. The aim is to be the first to get rid
   of all your cards by simultaneously and quickly playing cards of higher
   or lower value to a common stock.
   Spoons (2-8 players) - A hilarious GAME for kids or large groups, also
   known as "Pig" or "Donkey". Players have four cards and simultaneously
   pass a card to the left, trying to get a set of four matching cards, at
--
Trick-Taking GAME

   Trick taking GAME are one of the most common types of card GAME, and
   classics like Hearts and Spades are good examples. It is a GAME where
   players all have a hand of cards, and GAME-play revolves around a
   series of "tricks", in which each trick involves everyone playing one
   card from their hand, with the trick typically going to the person who
   played the highest card. If you have never played a trick-taking GAME
   before, I suggest you start with Knock Out Whist, which was listed in
   the previous category, and is an excellent and fun way to get
   introduced to this style of GAME.
   500 (4 players) - The national card GAME of Australia. A skilful
   trick-taking GAME where players bid for the number of tricks they think
   their partnership can win. The winning bidder is allowed to exchange
   several cards, and select the trump. There is much to love: the
--
   originated in France, was very popular in the early 20th century, and
   has some similarities to the two player version of the American
   GAME Pinochle.
   Bridge (4 players) - The ultimate classic among trick-taking card
   GAME. It is played in partnerships, and gives much room for much
   skilful play. Contract Bridge is often played in organized club
   settings, and the bidding and GAME-play has an extensive series of
   conventions that can take some time to learn in order to play well.
   Briscola (2-6 players) - An Italian trick-taking GAME that is quite
   easy to learn and play especially as a two player GAME. Using just 40
   cards, the aim is play tricks from your hand of three in order to win
   point scoring cards. Apparently this is especially good with the five
   player Briscola Chiamata variant.
   Euchre (4 players) - Extremely popular as a social GAME in parts of
   Canada and the USA, Euchre can especially be fun when played in a
   casual tournament setting. Just 25 cards are used, with the Jacks being
   powerful "bowers". One partnership is trying to win the most tricks
   from a five card hand, with trump determined by a turned up
   card. Ecarte (2 players) is an excellent trick-taking GAME that is very
   similar to Euchre, but better suited for a two player GAME.
   German Whist (2 players) - An excellent Whist style GAME for two
   players. Each player has a hand of 13 cards, and the first phase
   involves each person playing a card in order to compete for the face up
--
   card. When the stock is gone, you play out your remaining 13 cards, and
   the player winning the most tricks is the winner.
   Hearts (3-7 players) - One of the all time classic trick-taking GAME,
   where the aim is to avoid taking tricks with Hearts, since these are
   minus points, while the Queen of Spades is a whopping 13 minus points.
   There is no trump suit.
   Jass (2-4 players) - The national Swiss GAME, playable with two players
   or in partnerships. This is part of the Jass family which originated in
   the Netherlands. The wider family
--
   to Bezique and Pinochle.
   Le Truc (2 players) - This out-of-the-ordinary
   betting/bluffing/trick-taking GAME is a 19th century French GAME using
   a 32 card deck, and was especially popularized after inclusion in Sid
   Sackson's Gamut of GAME. A brilliant bluffing GAME where you use a
   hand of three cards to play only three tricks, but can increase the
   value of a hand throughout the GAME, to bluff and cause your opponent
   to fold. Be aware of some rule variations. Both the French Le Truc and
   the Spanish Truc (which has 2 player partnerships) are derived from the
   older English GAME Put (2 players), which is a simpler two player
   bluffing GAME that I can also recommend.
   Ninety-Nine (3 players) - This original GAME by David Parlett is
   regarded as one of the very best trick-taking GAME for exactly 3
   players. Only 36 cards are used, and from a hand of 12 players lay
   aside three cards that represent the number of their bid, and play out
--
   Oh Hell (3-7 players) - This goes under many names, including Up and
   Down the River, Bust, Estimation, and some less savoury titles that are
   variations on Oh ****. A great trick taking GAME where you bid how many
   tricks you can win, while the hand size increases or decreases each
   round. The GAME enables considerable skill, because even with bad cards
   you score if you bid correctly. Numerous scoring variants exist, one
   being published commercially under the name Wizard.
   Pinochle (4 players) - A popular and classic American trick-taking GAME
   for partnerships that uses an 80 card deck. Gameplay starts with an
   auction in which players bid how many points their team will win, with
--
   hand (melds). A two-player variant of Pinochle using a single-deck also
   exists.
   Piquet (2 players) - This classic GAME has a very long history going
   back several centuries. It is demanding since it has some old-fashioned
   complications, but is still popular, and regarded as one of the
   all-time best and most skilful card GAME for just two players.
   Pitch (4 players) - Derived from the old English GAME All Fours, this
   GAME has especially been popular in parts of the USA, and there are
   many variations. Typically played in partnerships, it begins with a
   bidding round after players each are dealt six cards, and bid for many
--
   hand: High trump, trick with low trump, trick with Jack of trumps, and
   highest total point value.
   Rook (4 players) - Rook is a terrific partnership trick taking GAME
   with bidding that was even published commercially under that name with
   a special deck. The aim is to win tricks with point cards (e.g. the
--
   the name 200 (in French: Deux Cents).
   Schnapsen (2 players) - Popular in many parts of Europe, Schnapsen is
   the national card GAME of Austria, and is a classic trick-taking card
   GAME for two players with a long history, and allows for genuinely
   skilful and clever play. Played with a small deck, one of its
   peculiarities is how points are scored for "marriages" (King-Queen
--
   closely related Sixty Six, and common Schnapsen rule variations,
   see here and here.
   Skat (3 players) - This classic trick-taking GAME is the national card
   GAME of Germany. It features complex scoring and bidding, but is one of
   the best card GAME for three players. A similar GAME with simpler
   bidding and scoring rules is Schafkopf, which was been Americanized and
   popularized by immigrants to the USA as Sheepshead. Also related is the
   demanding Doppelkopf (i.e. Double Sheepshead).
   Spades (4 players) - One of the better trick taking GAME for
   partnerships, and another classic after being invented and popularized
   in the USA in the 1930s. Spades are always the trumps, and players bid
   how many tricks they think they will win in advance. Although the
   bidding and scoring is not the easiest if you are new to trick-taking
   GAME, it is a GAME that allows for more skill than casual GAME like
   euchre.
   Whist (4 players) - A simple but classic trick-taking card GAME from
   which many others are derived. Played in partnerships, there is no
   trump, and teams try to win the most tricks as they play out a full
--
Non Trick-Taking GAME

   Trick taking GAME are arguably one of the most popular and common
   types of card GAME, which is why they were listed as a separate
   category. But there are certainly a large number of other fantastic
   card GAME as well. Most of the GAME listed in the "Social and Family
   GAME" category were also non tricking-taking GAME, but the GAME
   listed below tend to be a little more thoughtful and involved.
   Big Two (4 players) - Best with four players (although variants for 2-3
   players exist), this along with President (which appears earlier on
   this list) represents one of the more accessible and well-known
   climbing GAME. With the climbing genre, the idea is to be the first
   player to get rid of all your cards, playing cards individually or in
   special combinations. For a slightly easier climbing GAME than Big Two,
   consider Tien Len, which is the national card GAME of Vietnam. One of
   the most popular climbing GAME of all times is Tichu, which was
   published commercially with a special deck.
   Canasta (4 players) - A GAME that became extremely popular in the
   1950s, Canasta uses two standard decks, and is best in two-player
   partnerships. It is a rummy style of GAME in which the aim is to make
   melds of seven cards of the same value, and "go out" by playing your
   entire hand. There are also several variants, such as the popular Hand
   and Foot.
   Casino (2-4 players) - This classic card GAME is a "fishing" GAME that
   has some parallels to the simpler Scopa (see earlier on this list), and
   the Anglo-American version is especially popular. Players capture
--
   the crib, and which order to play the cards in hand. Even children will
   enjoy finding the point scoring combinations, while the
   imbalance/asymmetry of each GAME turn makes it especially interesting.
   Eleusis (4-8 players) - A modern card GAME simulating scientific
   research, as players ("scientists") conduct experiments to determine
   the rule governing play. Players try to get rid of cards by discarding
--
   by deducing it from legal plays.
   Gin Rummy (2 players) - Derived from Rummy (see earlier on this list),
   Gin Rummy is a "knocking GAME" that differs from Rummy in that melds
   are kept in hand until the end of a deal. It is an excellent and
   time-tested two player GAME.
   Nertz (2-6 players) - Also known as "Racing Demon" or "Pounce", Nertz
   is a competitive multi-player solitaire that is played in real time.
   The aim is to be the first to get rid of cards from your Nertz piles by
   building upwards on common foundations. It is basically the same GAME
   as the commercially available Ligretto/Dutch Blitz, but played with a
   standard deck.
   Poker (2-10 players) - This is considered the ultimate bluffing GAME,
   and No Limit Texas Hold 'Em has been popularized with the help of
   television and local tournaments. Players "bet" chips on whether or not
   they have the best five card poker hand. Many say it is only fun when
   played for money, suggesting that the thrill is in the gambling rather
   than the GAME-play. Even if you do not play for money, you do have to
   approach the GAME semi-seriously for it to be fun, otherwise it is too
   easy for someone to play foolishly and hand another player the GAME. A
   must for those who enjoy bluffing.
   Spite &amp Malice (2-5 players) - Also known as "Cat &amp Mouse", this is a
   competitive patience/solitaire GAME for two or more players that uses
   two decks, and is better known to most people under its commercially
   produced variation, Skip-Bo. Unlike Speed and Nertz, it is not played
   simultaneously in real time, because players take turns, but the
   overall concept is somewhat similar.
   Zetema (2 players) - This is an obscure Victorian card GAME that
   revived in popularity as a result of Sid Sackson's A Gamut of GAME.
   David Parlett recommends it as an out-of-the-ordinary card GAME that is
   "long and savory". It is played with a 65-card deck (52 cards plus an
   additional two through Ace in one suit), and each player's objective is
--

   So where should you start? Hopefully some of the descriptions I have
   provided will intrigue you enough to give a particular GAME a shot, or
   look into it further. But often GAME will depend on who you are
   playing with, the number of players you have, and the kind of GAME you
   are looking for. So to help you branch out beyond the repertoire that
   you might already be familiar with, here are some recommendations for
   GAME that I especially suggest for different situations.
   Are you looking for...
   - a GAME for just two players? GOPS and Scopa are two simpler GAME
   that are quite rewarding. If you want a trick-taking GAME for just two,
   then Briscola and German Whist are both straight forward and good
   choices, while Le Truc is fantastic for those who like bluffing,
--
   play. Cribbage and Gin Rummy are two non trick-taking classics that are
   every bit as good today as they have always been.
   - a GAME for four-players in partnerships? There are several good
   trick-taking GAME to choose from in this category, and while the
   ever-popular Bridge is good, the learning curve can be steep. I
   recommend starting with a simpler GAME like Euchre or Whist, or else
   something that involves more skill, like 500, Rook, or Spades, which
   incorporate the fun of bidding and give opportunity for a winning
   bidder to strengthen their hand.
   - a trick-taking GAME for an odd number of players? Ninety-Nine is the
   best trick-taker that plays with exactly three players. Hearts and Oh
   Hell can both handle various player counts, and are very good; if you
   enjoy bidding for how many tricks you think you will win then Oh Hell
   is an absolute must.
   - a light social GAME for a larger group? Try the classic climbing
   GAME President, the almost brainless Ranter-Go-Round, or the frenzy
   of Spoons, all of which are easy to learn and don not require too much
   brain power. Blitz and Cheat are also good choices for fun social GAME
   that can work with more than four players.
   - a GAME that is fast-paced? Try the craziness of two
   player Speed/Spit, or else ramp up the difficulty slightly with the
   frantic GAME-play of the popular Nertz, both of which have simultaneous
   real-time GAME-play. Egyptian Ratscrew also requires quick reactions
   and speed.
   - a GAME that is unusual and out-of-the-ordinary? Try the logical
   deduction required by the clever and inventive Eleusis, or the long and
   savoury gameplay of Zetema.
   - a GAME for older children? Most of the GAME in the "Social and
   Family GAME" category will work, but fun GAME that I have had good
   success with in playing with children include Cheat, Fan Tan, Knock Out
   Whist (which also serves as a good introduction to
   trick-taking), Palace, Speed, and Spoons. If they can handle the
   scoring system, Scopa is definitely a rewarding GAME that older
   children can enjoy, and the partnership GAME Scopone is particularly
   good. GOPS produces an excellent head-to-head battle-of-wits for just
   two, and so does Golf.
   - a GAME for younger children? There's a number of classic and very
   simple GAME not included on this list, such as Beggar My
   Neighbour (2-3 players), Crazy Eights (2-7 players), Go Fish (2-6
   players), Old Maid (2-12 players), Slap Jack (2-8 players), Snap (2-4
   players), and War (2 players). Be aware that some GAME like Beggar My
   Neighbour and also War involve no decisions and are a matter of pure
   luck!
--

   But what about if you have nobody to play with? The good news is that
   there is a wide range of excellent solitaire card GAME, a category
   sometimes referred to with the catch-all "Patience". Patience or
   Solitaire GAME are especially popular due to the fact that many of
   them come pre-installed on personal computer operating systems. Some
   solitaire GAME come down to pure luck, but there are many excellent
   ones that require genuine skill, and can be a very rewarding challenge
   to play.
   Rules: Fortunately you can learn many solitaire GAME with the help of
   free apps, or the many websites that offer these GAME to play for
   free. You will find lots of resources online that will teach you rules
   for different GAME, and a good place to begin is the Wikipedia page
   which lists solitaire GAME. Also check Polymorphic Solitaire, Pretty
   Good Solitaire, and Solitaire Network, which all have extensive lists
   of solitaire GAME, rules for each, and free online play.
   Recommendations: There are different types of solitaire GAME, and here
   are some of the better and more popular ones I can recommend, grouped
   according to different categories:
--
   Scorpion, Spider, Yukon
   Other types: Aces Up, Calculation
   Thematic: I also highly recommend Bowling Solitaire by genius GAME
   designer Sid Sackson. It is entirely unlike all the other solitaire
   GAME mentioned, but is an incredibly thematic and clever GAME.
   Apps: There are some fantastic apps available for free which have a
   wide range of solitaire GAME. Of the ones I have tried, I can
   especially recommend Full Deck Solitaire (by GRL GAME), Solebon
   Solitaire (by Solebon LLC), and Solitaire City (by Digital Smoke LLC).
--

   This article should get you well on your way to playing some fun card
   GAME. But if you are interested in exploring the world of card GAME
   further, there is certainly a lot more you can do. So here are some
   ideas for further expanding your horizons, learning more about the
   great card GAME that are out there, and even options for playing them
   when you have nobody else around to play with.
   Get a book: There are some fantastic books with rules to all the
   classic card GAME. You will need some way to learn how to play a new
   GAME, and resolve those inevitable rules arguments that might arise.
   Having a reliable book is something you can take with you when you are
   on the go. Here are two of the best:
--
   Penguin Encyclopedia of Card GAME, this book by David Parlett is
   easily the most comprehensive book in the English language with
   standard card GAME. If you are looking to discover new GAME, or find
   rules to lots of different GAME, this is the best book to get.
   0M Hoyle's Rules of GAME - An authoritative and standard text on
   classic card GAME. I personally own the Third Revised edition (Philip
   D. Morehead), and have used it often, although it is not as exhaustive
   as David Parlett's book, so it can happen that the card GAME of your
   choice is not included. But the section on card GAME is very useful,
   especially the contents pages which categorizes the GAME by
   suitability for adults/children and by number of players; plus it has
   rules to other classic GAME as well. This book and a deck of playing
   cards is all you need to take along on a vacation!
   Check online resources: There are some terrific resources online about
   traditional card GAME. Pagat.com is easily the most authoritative and
   best when it comes to rules, but there are certainly other places that
   are helpful as well. Suggestions to get you started:
   0M Pagat.com - John McLeod's award-winning site is considered to be the
   most exhaustive website with rules for different card GAME played with
   a standard deck. An outstanding and useful resource.
   0M BicycleCards.com - Bicycle's official website has their official
   rules for many different card GAME. It also has a helpful search
   function that allows you to find a suitable card GAME based on the
   number of players, who is playing, and type of GAME.
   0M BoardGameGeek.com - BoardGameGeek.com is the world's largest
   community of boardgamers. This page lists a number of GAME that can be
   played with a standard deck of playing cards, and gives some other
   links to their site. Also check their family page for traditional card
   GAME for more.
   0M Poker Suite - Cheapass GAME offers a free download of the rules PDF
   for their Poker Suite, which is a collection of 14 original GAME that
   is well worth looking at.
   GAME is inspired by modern GAME like Ticket to Ride and 7 Wonders.
   0M Isaludo - A set of ten modern card GAME designed to be played
   solitaire, created by hobbyist gamer Wilhelm Su from the Philippines.
   Play using an app: If you are not quite sure on the rules of how to
   play a specific card GAME mentioned above, there are plenty of apps
   available that will help you with that. The ideal way to learn a GAME
   is to have someone teach you, but an app is a fantastic second best,
   because it will enforce the rules. Many of them also include tutorials.
   There are quite a few software programs for card GAME that are readily
   available as well - most versions of Windows will come with Hearts and
   Spades, and some solitaire GAME too. Here are some good free apps for
   iOS for some of the GAME listed above; I've personally used, enjoyed,
   and can recommend all of these: Cribbage Craze (Cribbage) by Tim
   Eakins, Thirty One Rummy (Blitz) by North Sky GAME, Briscola
--
   Argentina (Le Truc) by Jaime Garcia Ghirelli. There is also a great
   free app called Bicycle How To Play by United States Playing Card
   Company. You cannot play any GAME with this app, but it comes with
   rules for many of the most popular card GAME, so it functions as a
   digital document you can use on the fly to find the rules you need.
   Play online: Playing with an app that incorporates multiplayer GAME is
   one way to play online, but there are also websites dedicated to this
   purpose as well. This is not something I have tried much myself, but
   here are a few that you can start
   with: cardGAME.io, worldofcardGAME.com, trickstercards.com,
   and cardzmania.com.
   Ask family and friends: Many families have their household favourites.
   Perhaps some of your friends know some great card GAME that they would
   just love to teach you! A night playing card GAME with family or
   friends makes for a relaxing social evening, and is a great way to
   spend time together.
   Hoyle's rules of GAME
   So dust off that custom deck that is looking down at you expectantly
   from the shelf, invite over some family or friends, and get those
   playing cards to the table. Enjoy your deck and discover the fun that
   playing card GAME has been bringing people around the world for
   centuries!

Do you ever play card GAME? Which GAME do you play most? What do you think
of the listed GAME?

   Other articles you might find interesting:
--

   About the writer: EndersGAME is a well-known and highly respected
   reviewer of board GAME and playing cards. He loves card GAME, card
   magic, cardistry, and card collecting, and has reviewed several hundred
   boardGAME and hundreds of different decks of playing cards. You can
   see a complete list of his GAME reviews here, and his playing card
   reviews here. He is considered an authority on playing cards and has
   written extensively about their design, history, and function, and has
   many contacts within the playing card and board GAME industries. You
   can view his previous articles about playing cards here. In his spare
   time he also volunteers with local youth to teach them the art of
--
   Jo Ruesch on 2022,05,10

   Years ago we played a GAME with neighbors called "Kings Reverse" and
   also "Kings in the Corner" I am looking for the instructions for a
   friend that is a Senior Residence.....Hope you can help.
--
   Jennifer Marie Janus on 2022,05,10

   I came up with new GAME I called it 4's. Fun GAME too play

   Marie on 2022,05,10

   Anyone out there know how to play a GAME called dirty queens?

   <lta href="https://templerun3.co">gttemple run<lt/a>gt on 2022,05,10

   awesome these cover GAME are very entertaining, it's too great to
   relieve stress after stressful working hours

--

   couple playing cards
     * Blog, GAME rules, GAME, how to, playing cards
     * November 27, 2023

--
   reviewer EndersGAME...
   rummy history
     * GAME, playing card history, playing cards, Rummy
     * February 14, 2023

The History Of Rummy GAME

   by Brandi Marcene Card GAME lovers around the world are familiar with
   the rummy GAME. The popularity of card GAME is...
   About Shuffled Ink's Playing Cards
     * custom playing cards, playing cards
--

   Playing cards have been around since the late 1300's and were a luxury
   GAME that was mainly used by the...
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   Show All
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-8">
<text>

   (BUTTON) Toggle Types subsection
     * 2.1Trick-taking GAME



   2.2Matching GAME



   2.3Shedding GAME



   2.4Catch and collect GAME



   2.5Fishing GAME



   2.6Comparing GAME



   2.7Patience and solitaire GAME



   2.8Drinking card GAME



   2.9Compendium GAME



   2.10Collectible card GAME (CCGs)



   2.11Living card GAME (LCGs)



   2.12Casino or gambling card GAME

     * 2.12.1Poker GAME



   2.13Other card GAME

     * 2.13.1Simulation card GAME



   2.14Fictional card GAME



   3Typical structure of card GAME

   (BUTTON) Toggle Typical structure of card GAME subsection
     * 3.1Number and association of players

--


   3.4Hands, rounds and GAME


--
   [ ] Toggle the table of contents

Card GAME

   [ ] 73 languages
--
   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
   GAME using playing cards as the primary device
   For other uses, see Card GAME (disambiguation).

   [220px-Theodoor_Rombouts_-_Joueurs_de_cartes.jpg] The Card Players,
   17th-century painting by Theodoor Rombouts

   A card GAME is any GAME using playing cards as the primary device with
   which the GAME is played, be they traditional or GAME-specific.
   Countless card GAME exist, including families of related GAME (such
   as poker). A small number of card GAME played with traditional decks
   have formally standardized rules with international tournaments being
   held, but most are folk GAME whose rules may vary by region, culture,
   location or from circle to circle.

   Traditional card GAME are played with a deck or pack of playing cards
   which are identical in size and shape. Each card has two sides, the
   face and the back. Normally the backs of the cards are
--
   can be duplicates. The composition of a deck is known to each player.
   In some cases several decks are shuffled together to form a single pack
   or shoe. Modern card GAME usually have bespoke decks, often with a
   vast amount of cards, and can include number or action cards. This type
   of GAME is generally regarded as part of the board GAME hobby.

   GAME using playing cards exploit the fact that cards are individually
   identifiable from one side only, so that each player knows only the
   cards they hold and not those held by anyone else. For this reason card
   GAME are often characterized as GAME of chance or "imperfect
   information"--as distinct from GAME of strategy or perfect
   information, where the current position is fully visible to all players
   throughout the GAME.^[1] Many GAME that are not generally placed in
   the family of card GAME do in fact use cards for some aspect of their
   play.

   Some GAME that are placed in the card GAME genre involve a board. The
   distinction is that the play in a card GAME chiefly depends on the use
   of the cards by players (the board is a guide for scorekeeping or for
   card placement), while board GAME (the principal non-card GAME genre
   to use cards) generally focus on the players' positions on the board,
   and use the cards for some secondary purpose.
--

   Despite the presence of playing cards in Europe being recorded from
   around 1370, it is not until 1408 that the first card GAME is described
   in a document about the exploits of two card sharps; although it is
   evidently very simple, the GAME is not named. In fact the earliest
   GAME to be mentioned by name are Gleek, Ronfa and Condemnade, the
   latter being the GAME played by the aforementioned card cheats. All
--

   Since the arrival trick-taking GAME in Europe in the late 14th
   century, there have only been two major innovations. The first was the
   introduction of trump cards with the power to beat all cards in other
--
   trump suit comprising a number of picture cards.^[4] The first known
   example of such cards was ordered by the Duke of Milan around 1420 and
   included 16 trumps with images of Greek and Roman gods.^[5] Thus GAME
   played with Tarot cards appeared very early on and spread to most parts
   of Europe with the notable exceptions of the British Isles, the Iberian
   Peninsula, and the Balkans.^[6] However, we do not know the rules of
   the early Tarot GAME; the earliest detailed description in any
--

   The concept of trumps was sufficiently powerful that it was soon
   transferred to GAME played with far cheaper ordinary packs of cards,
   as opposed to expensive Tarot cards. The first of these was Triomphe,
   the name simply being the French equivalent of the Italian trionfi.
   Although not testified before 1538, its first rules were written by a
   Spaniard who left his native country for Milan in 1509 never to return;
   thus the GAME may date to the late 15th century.^[9]^[10]^[11]

   Others GAME that may well date to the 15th century are Pochen - the
   GAME of Bocken or Boeckels being attested in Strasbourg in 1441^[12] -
   and Thirty-One, which is first mentioned in a French translation of a
   1440 sermon by the Italian, Saint Bernadine, the name actually
   referring to two different card GAME: one like Pontoon and one like
   Commerce.^[13]

--

   In the 16th century printed documents replace handwritten sources and
   card GAME become a popular topic with preachers, autobiographists and
   writers in general. A key source of the GAME in vogue in France and
   Gargantua played no less than 30 card GAME, many of which are
--
   Trente-et-Un; possibly Rams, Mouche and Brandeln as well.^[14] Girolamo
   Cardano also provides invaluable information including the earliest
   rules of Trappola. Among the most popular were the GAME of Flusso and
   Primiera, which originated in Italy and spread throughout Europe,
   becoming known in England as Flush and Primero.^[8]

   In Britain the earliest known European fishing GAME was recorded in
   1522.^[15] Another first was Losing Loadum, noted by Florio in 1591,
   which is the earliest known English point-trick GAME.^[16] In Scotland,
   the GAME of Mawe, testified in the 1550s, evolved from a country GAME
   into one played at the royal Scottish court, becoming a favourite of
   James VI.^[17] The ancestor of Cribbage - a GAME called Noddy - is
   mentioned for the first time in 1589, "Noddy" being the Knave turned
   for trump at the start of play.^[18]
--
17th century[edit]

   The 17th century saw an upsurge in the number of new GAME being
   reported as well as the first sets of rules, those for Piquet appearing
   in 1632 and Reversis in 1634.^[8] The first French GAME compendium, La
   Charles Cotton's The Compleat GAMEter, although an earlier manuscript
   of GAME by Francis Willughby was written sometime between 1665 and
   1670.^[19] Cotton records the first rules for the classic English GAME
   of Cribbage, a descendant of Noddy, and Whist, a development of English
   Trump or Ruff ('ruff' then meaning 'rob') in which four players were
--
   4 cards.^[20]

   Piquet was a two-player, trick-taking GAME that originated in France,
   probably in the 16th century and was initially played with 36 cards
   before, around 1690, the pack reduced to the 32 cards that gives the
   Piquet pack its name. Reversis is a reverse GAME in which players avoid
   taking tricks and appears to be an Italian invention that came to
   France around 1600 and spread rapidly to other countries in Europe.^[8]

   In the mid-17th century, a certain GAME named after Cardinal Mazarin,
   prime minister to King Louis XIV, became very popular at the French
   royal court. Called Hoc Mazarin, it had three phases, the final one of
   which evolved into a much simpler GAME called Manille that was renamed
--
   or hocs: cards that end a sequence and give the one who played it the
   advantage of being able to start a new sequence. This concept spread to
   other 17th and 18th century GAME including Poque, Comete, Emprunt,
   Manille, Nain Jaune and Lindor,^[22]^[23] all except Emprunt being
   still played in some form today.

   It was the 17th century that saw the second of the two great
   innovations being introduced into trick-taking GAME: the concept of
   bidding.^[3] This first emerged in the Spanish GAME of Ombre, an
   evolution of Triomphe that "in its time, was the most successful card
   GAME ever invented."^[24] Ombre's origins are unclear and obfuscated by
--
   being respectively Spanish and French for 'man'. In Ombre, the player
   who won the bidding became the "Man" and played alone against the other
   two. The GAME spread rapidly across Europe, spawning variants for
   different numbers of players and known as Quadrille, Quintille,
--
   example, in Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice.

   The first rules of any GAME in the German language were those for
   editions. In addition, the first German GAME compendium, Palamedes
   Redivivus appeared in 1678, containing the rules for Hoick (Hoc),
--
18th century[edit]

   The evolution of card GAME continued apace, with notable national
   GAME emerging like Briscola and Tressette (Italy), Schafkopf
   (Bavaria), Jass (Switzerland), Mariage, the ancestor of Austria's
   Schnapsen and Germany's Sixty-Six, and Tapp Tarock, the progenitor of
   most modern central European Tarot GAME. Whist spread to the continent
   becoming very popular in the north and west. In France, Comet appeared,
   a GAME that later evolved into Nain Jaune and the Victorian GAME of
   Pope Joan.

Types[edit]

   [220px-Preferans_%28card_GAME%29_in_Croatia.2.jpg] Preferans, a
   trick-taking card GAME version popular in Croatia

Trick-taking GAME[edit]

   See also: List of trick-taking GAME

   There are two main types of trick-taking GAME which have different
   objectives. Both are based on the play of multiple tricks, in each of
   which each player plays a single card from their hand, and based on the
   values of played cards one player wins or "takes" the trick.
     * Plain-trick GAME. Many common Anglo-American GAME fall into this
       category. The usual objective is to take the most tricks, but
       variations taking all tricks, making as few tricks (or penalty
       cards) as possible or taking an exact number of tricks. Bridge,
       Whist and Spades are popular examples. Hearts, Black Lady and Black
       Maria are examples of reverse GAME in which the aim is to avoid
       certain cards.

     * Point-trick GAME. These are all European or of European origin.
       Individual cards have specific point values and the objective is
       usually to amass the majority of points by taking tricks,
       especially those with higher value cards. The main group is the
       Ace-Ten family which includes many national GAME such as German
       Skat, French Belote, Dutch Klaberjass, Austrian Schnapsen, Spanish
       Tute, Swiss Jass, Portuguese Sueca, Italian Briscola and Czech
       All Tarot card GAME are of the point-trick variety including
       German Cego, Austrian Tarock, French Tarot and Italian Minchiate.

Matching GAME[edit]

   Main article: Matching GAME

   The object of a matching (or sometimes "melding") GAME is to acquire
   particular groups of matching cards before an opponent can do so. In
   Rummy, this is done through drawing and discarding, and the groups are
   called melds. Mahjong is a very similar GAME played with tiles instead
   of cards. Non-Rummy examples of match-type GAME generally fall into
   the "fishing" genre and include the children's GAME Go Fish and Old
   Maid.

Shedding GAME[edit]

   See also: Category:Shedding-type card GAME and List of shedding-type
   GAME

   In a shedding GAME, players start with a hand of cards, and the object
   of the GAME is to be the first player to discard all cards from one's
   hand. Common shedding GAME include Crazy Eights (commercialized by
   Mattel as Uno) and Daihinmin. Some matching-type GAME are also
   shedding-type GAME; some variants of Rummy such as Paskahousu, Phase
   10, Rummikub, the bluffing GAME I Doubt It, and the children's GAME
   Musta Maija and Old Maid, fall into both categories.

Catch and collect GAME[edit]

   See also: Category:Catch and collect GAME

   The object of an accumulating GAME is to acquire all cards in the deck.
   Examples include most War type GAME, and GAME involving slapping a
   discard pile such as Slapjack. Egyptian Ratscrew has both of these
   features.

  Fishing GAME[edit]

   "Fishing GAME" redirects here. For the video GAME genre, see fishing
   video GAME.

   See also: Category:Fishing card GAME

   In fishing GAME, cards from the hand are played against cards in a
   layout on the table, capturing table cards if they match.^[25] Fishing
   GAME are popular in many nations, including China, where there are
   many diverse fishing GAME. Scopa is considered one of the national
   card GAME of Italy. Cassino is the only fishing GAME to be widely
   played in English-speaking countries. Zwicker has been described as a
   "simpler and jollier version of Cassino", played in Germany.^[26]
   Tablanet (tablic) is a fishing-style GAME popular in Balkans.

  Comparing GAME[edit]

   See also: Category:Comparing card GAME

   Comparing card GAME are those where hand values are compared to
   determine the winner, also known as "vying" or "showdown" GAME. Poker,
   blackjack, mus, and baccarat are examples of comparing card GAME. As
   seen, nearly all of these GAME are designed as gambling GAME.

  Patience and solitaire GAME[edit]

   See also: Patience and solitaire GAME

   Solitaire GAME are designed to be played by one player. Most GAME
   begin with a specific layout of cards, called a tableau, and the object
   is then either to construct a more elaborate final layout, or to clear
--
   more "discard" or "foundation" piles.

  Drinking card GAME[edit]

   See also: Category:Drinking card GAME

   Drinking card GAME are drinking GAME using cards, in which the object
   in playing the GAME is either to drink or to force others to drink.
   Many GAME are ordinary card GAME with the establishment of "drinking
   rules"; President, for instance, is virtually identical to Daihinmin
   but with additional rules governing drinking. Poker can also be played
   using a number of drinks as the wager. Another GAME often played as a
   drinking GAME is Toepen, quite popular in the Netherlands. Some card
   GAME are designed specifically to be played as drinking GAME.

  Compendium GAME[edit]

   Compendium GAME consist of a sequence of different contracts played in
   succession. A common pattern is for a number of reverse deals to be
   played, in which the aim is to avoid certain cards, followed by a final
   contract which is a domino-type GAME. Examples include: Barbu, Herzeln,
   Lorum and Rosbiratschka. In other GAME, such as Quodlibet and Rumpel,
   there is a range of widely varying contracts.

  Collectible card GAME (CCGs)[edit]

   See also: Collectible card GAME, List of collectible card GAME, and
   Category:Collectible card GAME

   Collectible card GAME (CCG) are proprietary playing card GAME. CCGs
   are GAME of strategy between two or more players. Each player has
   their own deck constructed from a very large pool of unique cards in
   the commercial market. The cards have different effects, costs, and
   art. New card sets are released periodically and sold as starter decks
   or booster packs. Obtaining the different cards makes the GAME a
   collectible card GAME, and cards are sold or traded on the secondary
   collectible card GAME.

  Living card GAME (LCGs)[edit]

   See also: Living card GAME and Fantasy Flight GAME

   Living card GAME (LCGs) are similar to collectible card GAME (CCGs),
   with their most distinguishing feature being a fixed distribution
   method, which breaks away from the traditional collectible card GAME
   format. While new cards for CCGs are usually sold in the form of
   starter decks or booster packs (the latter being often randomized),
   LCGs thrive on a model that requires players to acquire one core set in
   order to play the GAME, which players can further customize by
   acquiring extra sets or expansions featuring new content in the form of
   cards or scenarios. No randomization is involved in the process, thus
--
   can be seen using a very similar model.

  Casino or gambling card GAME[edit]

   See also: casino and gambling

   These GAME revolve around wagers of money. Though virtually any GAME
   in which there are winning and losing outcomes can be wagered on, these
   GAME are specifically designed to make the betting process a strategic
   part of the GAME. Some of these GAME involve players betting against
   each other, such as poker, while in others, like blackjack, players
   wager against the house.

    Poker GAME[edit]

   See also: List of poker variants and Category:Poker variants

   Poker is a family of gambling GAME in which players bet into a pool,
   called the pot, the value of which changes as the GAME progresses that
   the value of the hand they carry will beat all others according to the
   ranking system. Variants largely differ on how cards are dealt and the
   methods by which players can improve a hand. For many reasons,
   including its age and its popularity among Western militaries, it is
   one of the most universally known card GAME in existence.

  Other card GAME[edit]

   See also: Category:Dedicated deck card GAME

   Many other card GAME have been designed and published on a commercial
   or amateur basis. In some cases, the GAME uses the standard 52-card
   deck, but the object is unique. In Eleusis, for example, players play
   single cards, and are told whether the play was legal or illegal, in an
   attempt to discover the underlying rules made up by the dealer.

   Most of these GAME however typically use a specially made deck of
   cards designed specifically for the GAME (or variations of it). The
   decks are thus usually proprietary, but may be created by the GAME's
   players. Uno, Phase 10, Set, and 1000 Blank White Cards are popular
   dedicated-deck card GAME; 1000 Blank White Cards is unique in that the
   cards for the GAME are designed by the players of the GAME while
   playing it; there is no commercially available deck advertised as such.

    Simulation card GAME[edit]

   A deck of either customised dedicated cards or a standard deck of
--
   another activity, for example card football.

  Fictional card GAME[edit]


   Many GAME, including card GAME, are fabricated by science fiction
   authors and screenwriters to distance a culture depicted in the story
   from present-day Western culture. They are commonly used as filler to
   depict background activities in an atmosphere like a bar or rec room,
   but sometimes the drama revolves around the play of the GAME. Some of
   these GAME become real card GAME as the holder of the intellectual
   property develops and markets a suitable deck and ruleset for the GAME,
   while others lack sufficient descriptions of rules, or depend on cards
   or other hardware that are infeasible or physically impossible.

Typical structure of card GAME[edit]

   This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this
--
   _Players%29%2C_60_x_73_cm%2C_oil_on_canvas%2C_Courtauld_Institute_of_Ar
   t%2C_London.jpg] The Card Players, 1895 by Paul
--
   Seattle, Washington.

   Any specific card GAME imposes restrictions on the number of players.
   The most significant dividing lines run between one-player GAME and
   two-player GAME, and between two-player GAME and multi-player GAME.
   Card GAME for one player are known as solitaire or patience card
   GAME. (See list of solitaire card GAME.) Generally speaking, they are
   in many ways special and atypical, although some of them have given
   rise to two- or multi-player GAME such as Spite and Malice.

   In card GAME for two players, usually not all cards are distributed to
   the players, as they would otherwise have perfect information about the
   GAME state. Two-player GAME have always been immensely popular and
   include some of the most significant card GAME such as piquet,
   bezique, sixty-six, klaberjass, gin rummy and cribbage. Many
   multi-player GAME started as two-player GAME that were adapted to a
   greater number of players. For such adaptations a number of non-obvious
   choices must be made beginning with the choice of a GAME orientation.

   One way of extending a two-player GAME to more players is by building
   two teams of equal size. A common case is four players in two fixed
   partnerships, sitting crosswise as in whist and contract bridge.
--
   If communication between the partners is allowed at all, then it is
   usually restricted to a specific list of permitted signs and signals.
   17th-century French partnership GAME such as triomphe were special in
   that partners sat next to each other and were allowed to communicate
   freely so long as they did not exchange cards or play out of order.

   Another way of extending a two-player GAME to more players is as a
   cut-throat or individual GAME, in which all players play for
   themselves, and win or lose alone. Most such card GAME are round
   GAME, i.e. they can be played by any number of players starting from
   two or three, so long as there are enough cards for all.

   For some of the most interesting GAME such as ombre, tarot and skat,
   the associations between players change from hand to hand. Ultimately
   players all play on their own, but for each hand, some GAME mechanism
   divides the players into two teams. Most typically these are solo
   GAME, i.e. GAME in which one player becomes the soloist and has to
   achieve some objective against the others, who form a team and win or
   lose all their points jointly. But in GAME for more than three
   players, there may also be a mechanism that selects two players who
   then have to play against the others.
--
  Direction of play[edit]

   The players of a card GAME normally form a circle around a table or
   other space that can hold cards. The GAME orientation or direction of
   play, which is only relevant for three or more players, can be either
   clockwise or counterclockwise. It is the direction in which various
   roles in the GAME proceed. (In real-time card GAME, there may be no
   need for a direction of play.) Most regions have a traditional
   direction of play, such as:
--
   GAME that originate in a region with a strong preference are often
   initially played in the original direction, even in regions that prefer
   the opposite direction. For GAME that have official rules and are
   played in tournaments, the direction of play is often prescribed in
   those rules.
--
  Determining who deals[edit]

   Most GAME have some form of asymmetry between players. The roles of
   players are normally expressed in terms of the dealer, i.e. the player
   whose task it is to shuffle the cards and distribute them to the
   players. Being the dealer can be a (minor or major) advantage or
   disadvantage, depending on the GAME. Therefore, after each played hand,
   the deal normally passes to the next player according to the GAME
   orientation.

--
   to the deck. The player who reveals the highest (or lowest) card
   becomes dealer. In the case of a tie, the process is repeated by the
   tied players. For some GAME such as whist this process of cutting is
   part of the official rules, and the hierarchy of cards for the purpose
   of cutting (which need not be the same as that used otherwise in the
   GAME) is also specified. But in general, any method can be used, such
   as tossing a coin in case of a two-player GAME, drawing cards until one
   player draws an ace, or rolling dice.

  Hands, rounds and GAME[edit]

   A hand, also called a deal, is a unit of the GAME that begins with the
   dealer shuffling and dealing the cards as described below, and ends
   with the players scoring and the next dealer being determined. The set
--
   Most often this occurs when one player (or all) has no cards left. The
   player who sits after the dealer in the direction of play is known as
   eldest hand (or in two-player GAME as elder hand) or forehand. A GAME
   round consists of as many hands as there are players. After each hand,
   the deal is passed on in the direction of play, i.e. the previous
   eldest hand becomes the new dealer. Normally players score points after
   each hand. A GAME may consist of a fixed number of rounds.
   Alternatively it can be played for a fixed number of points. In this
   case it is over with the hand in which a player reaches the target
--
   dominoes.

   For casino GAME that are played for large sums it is vital that the
   cards be properly randomized, but for many GAME this is less critical,
   and in fact player experience can suffer when the cards are shuffled
   too well. The official skat rules stipulate that the cards are shuffled
--
   they are in a uniform stack, and shuffles them. In strict play, the
   dealer then offers the deck to the previous player (in the sense of the
   GAME direction) for cutting. If the deal is clockwise, this is the
   player to the dealer's right; if counterclockwise, it is the player to
   the dealer's left. The invitation to cut is made by placing the pack,
--
   cards, if any, are left face down in the middle of the table, forming
   the stock (also called the talon, widow, skat or kitty depending on the
   GAME and region).

   Throughout the shuffle, cut, and deal, the dealer should prevent the
--
   and hold them in such a way that the faces can be seen by the holder of
   the cards but not the other players, or vice versa depending on the
   GAME. It is helpful to fan one's cards out so that if they have corner
   indices all their values can be seen at once. In most GAME, it is also
   useful to sort one's hand, rearranging the cards in a way appropriate
   to the GAME. For example, in a trick-taking GAME it may be easier to
   have all one's cards of the same suit together, whereas in a rummy GAME
   one might sort them by rank or by potential combinations.

--
   this template message)

   A new card GAME starts in a small way, either as someone's invention,
   or as a modification of an existing GAME. Those playing it may agree to
   change the rules as they wish. The rules that they agree on become the
   "house rules" under which they play the GAME. A set of house rules may
   be accepted as valid by a group of players wherever they play, as it
   may also be accepted as governing all play within a particular house,

   When a GAME becomes sufficiently popular, so that people often play it
   with strangers, there is a need for a generally accepted set of rules.
   This need is often met when a particular set of house rules becomes
--

   There is nothing static or "official" about this process. For the
   majority of GAME, there is no one set of universal rules by which the
   GAME is played, and the most common ruleset is no more or less than
   that. Many widely played card GAME, such as Canasta and Pinochle, have
   no official regulating body. The most common ruleset is often
   determined by the most popular distribution of rulebooks for card
   GAME. Perhaps the original compilation of popular playing card GAME
   was collected by Edmund Hoyle, a self-made authority on many popular
   parlor GAME. The U.S. Playing Card Company now owns the eponymous
   Hoyle brand, and publishes a series of rulebooks for various families
   of card GAME that have largely standardized the GAME' rules in
   countries and languages where the rulebooks are widely distributed.
   However, players are free to, and often do, invent "house rules" to
   supplement or even largely replace the "standard" rules.

   If there is a sense in which a card GAME can have an official set of
   rules, it is when that card GAME has an "official" governing body. For
   example, the rules of tournament bridge are governed by the World
   Bridge Federation, and by local bodies in various countries such as the
--
   down by the Schafkopfschule in Munich. Even in these cases, the rules
   must only be followed at GAME sanctioned by these governing bodies or
   where the tournament organisers specify them. Players in informal
   settings are free to implement agreed supplemental or substitute rules.
--
  Rule infractions[edit]

   An infraction is any action which is against the rules of the GAME,
   such as playing a card when it is not one's turn to play or the
   accidental exposure of a card, informally known as "bleeding."

   In many official sets of rules for card GAME, the rules specifying the
   penalties for various infractions occupy more pages than the rules
   specifying how to play correctly. This is tedious but necessary for
   GAME that are played seriously. Players who intend to play a card GAME
   at a high level generally ensure before beginning that all agree on the
   penalties to be used. When playing privately, this will normally be a
--
   arbitrate in cases of doubt.

   If a player breaks the rules of a GAME deliberately, this is cheating.
   The rest of this section is therefore about accidental infractions,
   caused by ignorance, clumsiness, inattention, etc.

   As the same GAME is played repeatedly among a group of players,
   precedents build up about how a particular infraction of the rules
   should be handled. For example, "Sheila just led a card when it wasn't
--
   be regarded as part of the house rules. Sets of house rules may become
   formalized, as described in the previous section. Therefore, for some
   GAME, there is a "proper" way of handling infractions of the rules.
   But for many GAME, without governing bodies, there is no standard way
   of handling infractions.

--
   what happens after an infraction. As a general principle, the person
   who broke a rule should not benefit from it, and the other players
   should not lose by it. An exception to this may be made in GAME with
   fixed partnerships, in which it may be felt that the partner(s) of the
   person who broke a rule should also not benefit. The penalty for an
--
   dated c. 1400 AD, Ming dynasty

   The oldest surviving reference to the card GAME in world history is
   from the 9th century China, when the Collection of Miscellanea at
   Duyang, written by Tang-dynasty writer Su E, described Princess
   Tongchang (daughter of Emperor Yizong of Tang) playing the "leaf GAME"
   with members of the Wei clan (the family of the princess's husband) in
   868 .^[28]^[29]^[30] The Song dynasty statesman and historian Ouyang
--
   Playing cards first appeared in Europe in the last quarter of the 14th
   century.^[31]^: 35 The earliest European references speak of a Saracen
   or Moorish GAME called naib, and in fact an almost complete Mamluk
   Egyptian deck of 52 cards in a distinct oriental design has survived
   from around the same time, with the four suits swords, polo sticks,
--
   The 1430s in Italy saw the invention of the tarot deck, a full
   Latin-suited deck augmented by suitless cards with painted motifs that
   played a special role as trumps. Tarot card GAME are still played with
   (subsets of) these decks in parts of Central Europe. A full tarot deck
   contains 14 cards in each suit; low cards labeled 1-10, and court cards
--
   for the purpose; today most tarot decks sold in North America are the
   occult type, and are closely associated with fortune telling. In
   Europe, "playing tarot" decks remain popular for GAME, and have
   evolved since the 18th century to use regional suits (spades, hearts,
   diamonds and clubs in France; leaves, hearts, bells and acorns in
--
   such as corner card indices and "stamped" card symbols for non-court
   cards. Decks differ regionally based on the number of cards needed to
   play the GAME; the French tarot consists of the "full" 78 cards, while
   Germanic, Spanish and Italian Tarot variants remove certain values
   (usually low suited cards) from the deck, creating a deck with as few
--
   The best-known deck internationally is the English pattern of the
   52-card French deck, also called the International or Anglo-American
   pattern, used for such GAME as poker and contract bridge. It contains
   one card for each unique combination of thirteen ranks and the four
   French suits spades, hearts, diamonds, and clubs. The ranks (from
--
   and rankings in the corner of the card is from 1693, but these cards
   did not become common until after 1864 when Hart reintroduced them
   along with the knave-to-jack change.) However, books of card GAME
   published in the third quarter of the 19th century evidently still
   referred to the "knave", and the term with this definition is still
--
   [220px-Chinese_Mother_Of_Pearl_Gambling_Tokens.jpg] Chinese
   mother-of-pearl gambling tokens used in scoring and bidding of card
   GAME.

--
   became popular and spread to Germany, where it was called La Bete and
   England where it was named Beast. It was a derivative of Triomphe and
   was the first card GAME in history to introduce the concept of
   bidding.^[33]

   Chinese handmade mother-of-pearl gaming counters were used in scoring
   and bidding of card GAME in the West during the approximate period of
   1700-1840. The gaming counters would bear an engraving such as a coat
   of arms or a monogram to identify a family or individual. Many of the
   gaming counters also depict Chinese scenes, flowers or animals. Queen
   Charlotte is one prominent British individual who is known to have
   played with the Chinese gaming counters. Card GAME such as Ombre,
   Quadrille and Pope Joan were popular at the time and required counters
   for scoring. The production of counters declined after Whist, with its
   different scoring method, became the most popular card GAME in the
   West.^[34]

   Based on the association of card GAME and gambling, Pope Benedict XIV
   banned card GAME on October 17, 1750.^[35]

See also[edit]
--
     * GAME of chance
     * GAME of skill
     * R. F. Foster (GAME)
     * Henry Jones (writer) who wrote under the pseudonym "Cavendish"
     * John Scarne
     * Dice GAME
     * List of card GAME by number of cards

References[edit]
--
   15. ^ Skelton (1522).
   16. ^ Florio (1591), p. 67.
   17. ^ Maw at parlettGAME.uk. Retrieved 26 November 2022.
   18. ^ Noddy: Knavish ancestor of Cribbage at parlettGAME.uk. Retrieved
       26 November 2023.
   19. ^ Willughby, Francis. A Volume of Plaies. (Manuscript in the
--
       Taipei: Caves Books, Ltd.(1986), Page 131
   31. ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d David Sidney Parlett (1990). The Oxford guide to card
       GAME. Internet Archive. Oxford University Press.
       ISBN 978-0-19-214165-1.
   32. ^ Dummett, Michael; Abu-Deeb, Kamal (1973), "Some remarks on Mamluk
       playing cards", Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes,
       63: 106-128, doi:10.2307/751160, JSTOR 751160, S2CID 192948205
   33. ^ "Euchre: history of, by David Parlett". www.parlettGAME.uk.
       Archived from the original on May 4, 2019. Retrieved December 29,
       2022.
--
External links[edit]

   Wikimedia Commons has media related to Card GAME.

     * International Playing Card Society
     * Rules for historic card GAME
     * Collection of rules to many card GAME

     * v
--
     * e

   Non trick-taking card GAME

     * Shuffling
     * Cutting
     * Glossary of card GAME terms

   Adding
--

     * {{Historical card GAME}} {{Patience}} {{Trick-taking card GAME}}
       {{Tarot and Tarock card GAME}}

     * v
--
     * e

   Trick-taking card GAME (list)

   French packs
--
     * Kaiserspiel

     * Category {{Historical card GAME}} {{Non trick-taking card GAME}}
       {{Tarot and Tarock card GAME}}

     * v
--
     * e

   Tabletop GAME by type

   Board GAME

     * Adventure board GAME
     * AmeriGAME
     * Cooperative board GAME
     * Deduction board GAME
     * EuroGAME
     * Race GAME
          + Cross and circle GAME
     * Legacy GAME
     * Running-fight GAME
     * Tables GAME
     * Tile-based GAME
          + Dominoes
          + Chinese dominoes
     * Train GAME
          + 18XX

   Card GAME

     * Collectible card GAME
     * Deck-building GAME
     * Dedicated deck card GAME
     * Shedding-type GAME
     * Patience
     * Tarot card GAME
     * Trick-taking GAME

   Strategy GAME

     * Abstract strategy GAME
          + Connection GAME
          + Tafl GAME
     * Constructible strategy GAME
     * Miniatures GAME
          + Collectible miniatures GAME
     * WarGAME

   Other

     * Dice GAME
     * Matching GAME
     * MegaGAME
     * Icehouse pieces
     * Paper-and-pencil GAME
     * Social deduction GAME
     * Tabletop role-playing GAME

   Authority control databases Edit this at Wikidata
--

   Retrieved from
   "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Card_GAME&ampoldid=1187250950"

   Categories:
     * Card GAME
     * Tabletop GAME

   Hidden categories:
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-9">
<text>
   oldest and most traditional form of sport.

   Sport pertains to any form of physical activity or GAME,^[1] often
   competitive and organized, that aims to use, maintain, or improve
   physical ability and skills while providing enjoyment to participants
--
   provide tie-breaking methods to ensure one winner. A number of contests
   may be arranged in a tournament producing a champion. Many sports
   leagues make an annual champion by arranging GAME in a regular sports
   season, followed in some cases by playoffs.

--
   the international sports federation association, recognises five
   non-physical sports: bridge, chess, draughts (checkers), Go and
   xiangqi,^[4]^[5] and limits the number of mind GAME which can be
   admitted as sports.^[1]

--

   Other meanings include gambling and events staged for the purpose of
   gambling; hunting; and GAME and diversions, including ones that
   require exercise.^[9] Roget's defines the noun sport as an "activity
   engaged in for relaxation and amusement" with synonyms including
--
   [200px-ChessStartingPosition.jpg] The International Olympic Committee
   recognises some board GAME as sports including
   chess.[200px-Showjumping_white_horse.jpg] Show jumping, an equestrian
   sport
--
     * be in no way harmful to any living creature
     * not rely on equipment provided by a single supplier (excluding
       proprietary GAME such as arena football)
     * not rely on any "luck" element specifically designed into the
       sport.
--

   There has been an increase in the application of the term "sport" to a
   wider set of non-physical challenges such as video GAME, also called
   esports (from "electronic sports"), especially due to the large scale
   of participation and organised competition, but these are not widely
--
   be enjoyed for its own sake. The well-known sentiment by sports
   journalist Grantland Rice, that it is "not that you won or lost but how
   you played the GAME", and the modern Olympic creed expressed by its
   founder Pierre de Coubertin: "The most important thing... is not
   winning but taking part" are typical expressions of this sentiment.
--
   135 million in India alone.^[27]

   In the United States, the championship GAME of the NFL, the Super Bowl,
   has become one of the most watched television broadcasts of the
   year.^[28]^[29] Super Bowl Sunday is a de facto national holiday in
--
   from playing Gaelic football, hurling, or other sports administered by
   the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) if she/he played or supported
   Association football, or other GAME seen to be of British origin.
   Until recently the GAA continued to ban the playing of football and
   rugby union at Gaelic venues. This ban, also known as Rule 42,^[69] is
--
   Stadium. Until recently, under Rule 21, the GAA also banned members of
   the British security forces and members of the RUC from playing Gaelic
   GAME, but the advent of the Good Friday Agreement in 1998 led to the
   eventual removal of the ban.^[70]

--
   affect the results. A study published in the Proceedings of the
   National Academy of Sciences showed that when the home team wins the
   GAME before the election, the incumbent candidates can increase their
   share of the vote by 1.5 per cent. A loss had the opposite effect, and
   the effect is greater for higher-profile teams or unexpected wins and
   losses.^[71] Also, when Washington Redskins win their final GAME before
   an election, then the incumbent president is more likely to win, and if
   the Redskins lose, then the opposition candidate is more likely to win;
--
   ancient Olympic GAME were held in honour of the head deity, Zeus, and
   featured various forms of religious dedication to him and other
   gods.^[77] As many Greeks travelled to see the GAME, this combination
   of religion and sport also served as a way of uniting them.

--
   of or participation in professional sports, believing that professional
   sports leagues profane the Sabbath as in the modern era, certain
   associations hold GAME on the Lord's Day.^[81] They also criticise
   professional sports for its fostering of a commitment that competes
   with a Christian's primary commitment to God in opposition to 1
--
     * Handedness#Advantage in sports
     * International sport
     * Lawn GAME
     * Mind sport
     * Motor sports
--
   10. ^ Roget's II: The New Thesaurus (3rd ed.). Houghton Mifflin
       Harcourt. 1995. ISBN 978-0-618-25414-9.
   11. ^ "Judicial review of 'sport' or 'GAME' decision begins". BBC News.
       22 September 2015. Archived from the original on 23 October 2018.
       Retrieved 21 June 2018.
--
       June 2015.
   52. ^ Cleary, Mick (20 August 2012). "New rules for Television Match
       Officials will not make GAME boring to watch, insist rugby chiefs".
       The Telegraph. Archived from the original on 10 January 2022.
       Retrieved 8 June 2015.
--
       Part 2
   75. ^ Disappearance of Traditional GAME by the imitation of Colonial
       Culture through the Historical parameters of Cultural Colonialism
       Archived 26 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine
--
     * Video

   List of GAME genres

   Authority control databases Edit this at Wikidata
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-10">
<text>
Team Building GAME for Adults: 31 BEST in 2023

   You found our list of the best team building GAME for adults.

   Team building GAME are competitive activities that boost productivity
   and bring your team closer together at the office. For example, murder
   mysteries, escape GAME and people Bingo. The purpose of these GAME is
   to give your employees time to bond and connect, which helps lead to
   better communication, job satisfaction and retention. These GAME are
   also known as "team building activities."

   These GAME are similar to team building exercises, team building
   events, team meeting GAME, and office GAME. The activities are an
   offline equivalent of online team building GAME.
   team-building-GAME

   This list includes:
     * fun team building GAME for adults
     * free team building GAME without materials
     * corporate team building GAME for the office
     * team bonding GAME
     * team GAME for work
     * office team GAME
     * DIY team building GAME

   So, check out the list!

List of team building GAME

   From GAME that keep you on your feet to ones that test your knowledge,
   these surprisingly fun team building GAME for adults are sure to be a
   hit at your office.

1. Popular Opinions

   Popular Opinions is a GAME that encourages teammates to guess how the
   majority of the coworkers will answer. The GAME is simple. A leader
   gives a question, and players must answer not with their own personal
   preferences, but with the answer they believe will be the most popular
--
2. Number of Things in Common

   Number of Things in Common is a twist on the GAME "Something in
   Common." In the original GAME, teammates are looking for traits they
   all share. In this version of the GAME, players go one step further and
   look for qualities that a certain number of them have in common.

--
   Then, share your best finds with the rest of the group.

   This version of the GAME requires a slightly more discussion and
   strategy than Something in Common.

--
4. Where in the World?

   Where in the World? is a GAME that tests teams' geography and travel
   knowledge.

   Here's how to play:
    1. Go to GeoGuessr.com
    2. Start a GAME
    3. The browser will show a random destination
    4. Players must try to guess where it is
--
5. Team Building Bingo

   Team Building Bingo is one of the most exciting DIY team building GAME
   for learning more about the people you work with. Prior to playing,
   brainstorm a series of quirky experiences, organize your thoughts on
   individualized "bingo boards", and distribute the boards to your team.
   During the GAME, players ask each other if they have experienced what
   is written in the spaces. If a player has had the experience, then that
   person signs the corresponding space on the asker's bingo card. Like
--
   round

   Here is a Bingo card generator you can use for your GAME:

   And here is a full guide to icebreaker Bingo.
--
6. Pub-like Trivia

   Pub-like Trivia is a stellar corporate team building GAME that tests
   your team's knowledge, even if your workplace does not allow alcohol.
   First, prepare a list of trivia questions. The best trivia questions
--
   with your questions, divide players into teams. Teams can privately
   discuss answers before responding. The team that answers the most
   questions correctly wins. This is a great GAME for team bonding because
   teams need to collaborate and pool knowledge to succeed.

--
7. Guess the Baby

   Guess the Baby is a charming GAME that asks team members to deduce
   whose baby picture is whose. Before the GAME begins, ask team members
   to submit a baby or toddler photo. Then, put the baby pictures up where
   everyone can see them and have team members submit a form or use
--
   inviting them to share childhoods with fellow team members.

   Here are more connection GAME to play.

8. Secret Gifter

   Based on Secret Santa, Secret Gifter is a gift exchange GAME that you
   can play any time of the year. Players submit names and receive a
   subject to buy gifts for. To keep gifts fair and of similar quality,
--
   designated day, publicly exchange gifts. During the gift exchange, team
   members guess who their Secret Gifter is. If a team member guesses
   correctly, then they win! Secret Gifter is a great GAME because it
   encourages team members to learn more about each other to buy the
   perfect gift. Plus, who does not like to receive a fun surprise?
--
9. Codenames

   Codenames is traditionally an in-person board GAME. However, there is
   also an online Codenames that makes for a great team building GAME for
   remote teams. At the beginning of the GAME, everyone can see a series
   of cards with words on them. The GAME then divides players into two
   teams and each team nominates a spymaster. The spymaster's job is to
   get their teammates to guess the words marked with their team color.
   The team that guesses all their cards first wins the GAME. Codenames is
   a fun team building GAME because your team must work together to
   succeed.

   Here is an entire list of team building board GAME.

10. Workout Challenge

   Inspired by the "See 10, Do 10'' viral Instagram challenge, Workout
   Challenge is GAME for teams that encourages your people to invest in
   physical fitness. Every day, a team member starts by recording a video
   doing ten push ups and sends it to a group chat, tagging another team
--
   someone else, and so on and so forth. Anyone who neglects to do ten
   push ups by the end of the day loses and must buy everyone else a
   coffee. The Workout Challenge is a fantastic team building GAME because
   it keeps your team active. Staying active is especially important since
   many office jobs require people to sit for long periods of time.
--
11. Forensic Sketch Artist

   Forensic Sketch Artist is one of the top engaging office team GAME
   that tests your team's communication and drawing skills. Split your
   team into two and set the scene by explaining that a robbery has just
--

   Similar to Six Degrees of Separation, Five Clicks Away is an online
   team building GAME where team members attempt to connect two seemingly
   unrelated Wikipedia pages in five clicks. To begin playing, select two
   topics that seem to have nothing in common, such as BTS and the Battle
   of Mine Creek. Then, ask your team to use Wikipedia internal links from
   the first page to navigate to the second. Five Clicks Away is a GAME
   that both educates your team on obscure topics and hones your team's
   research skills.
--
13. Heads Up!

   Heads Up! is an app-based party GAME that can also be fun at the
   office. Created by Ellen DeGeneres, you can play Heads Up! with any
   number of people, which makes it suitable for both large and small
--
   appear on the screen and the other players will give hints to help the
   team member with the phone guess what the word is. Heads Up! is an
   exhilarating teamwork GAME because it creates a fun situation where
   your team must work together to triumph.

--
14. No Context Pictures

   No Context Pictures is a fun indoor team building GAME to discover more
   about your coworkers' personal lives. Prior to the GAME, ask your team
   to submit an eccentric photo with no context. Then, post the photos in
   a place where everyone on the team can see them. Ask team members to
   submit short explanations of what is happening in the photos. The
   person who originally submitted the photo votes on which story they
   like the most. No Context Pictures is a great team building GAME
   because it helps paint a more complete picture of your coworkers by
   showing a different side of their lives that may not be visible at the
   workplace.

   Here are more problem solving GAME.

15. Guess the Film Buff

   Guess the Film Buff is an entertaining GAME. Prior to the GAME, team
   members submit photos of DVD or home movie collections. If a team
   member does not have a physical film collection, then ask them to send
--
   guesses for who the owners are by the end of the day. The person who
   guesses the most film collections correctly wins. Guess the Film Buff
   is a great GAME for teams because your team can learn about each
   others' tastes, while also picking up new suggestions on what to watch
   next.
--
16. What's On My Desk?

   What's On My Desk? is an office GAME where team members test how well
   they know each other. For this GAME, request team members submit photos
   of their desk setup. Once the photos are in, post the pictures in a
   shared space where everyone can see. Then, ask your team to turn in
   guesses on whose desk is whose. The person who guesses the most number
   of desks correctly wins. What's On My Desk? is a great GAME because
   your team can become more familiar with each other through desk
   memorabilia.
--
   Has your team ever considered dabbling in low-budget filmmaking? Based
   on the 48 Hour Film Project, Team Film Festival is a DIY team building
   GAME that challenges your team to produce a film in 48 hours. Prior to
   the festival, split your employees up into filmmaking teams. Reveal the
   festival's overall theme and assign genres to each team using a random
--

   With the mental health benefits of plants becoming more well-known,
   Plant Babies is an office GAME that encourages your team to grow plants
   at their desks. For this GAME, team members should each adopt a plant
   to care for. Then, as the Plant Babies surpass certain milestones, such
   as growing to certain heights or developing flowers, team members
--
   enjoyable office environment together.

List of free team building GAME without materials

   There are many team building GAME that don't require materials. You
   just need a group of people, and a few simple rules to guide your
   GAME.

20. Two Truths and One Lie

   Two Truths and One Lie is another fun way to learn more about your
   colleagues. Best of all, this GAME requires no materials! In this GAME,
   a team member presents two true statements and one lie. The other
   members have to guess which statement is the lie. If any of the team
--
   one guesses correctly, then the person who presented the statements
   wins a point. The winner is the person with the most points by the end
   of the GAME.

   Here are more quick icebreaker GAME.

21. Never Have I Ever

   A classic GAME often played at camp, teams can also play Never Have I
   Ever at the office. To start, players hold up five fingers. Then, in a
   circle, players name something that they have never done before. For
   example, "never have I ever baked banana bread." Any team member who
   has had the named experience puts a finger down. The last person still
   holding up fingers by the end of the GAME is the winner. Through Never
   I Have Ever, players learn many interesting and surprising things about
   your coworkers.

   Here is a prompt generator to use for your GAME:

   --
--
   stories should describe how the team member came to work for your
   organization and are based on true events. Then, team members vote for
   the best backstory. My Superhero Backstory is an effective GAME for
   teams because it builds your team's mythology and creates inside jokes
   that help team members bond.

   Here are more fun improv GAME for groups.

23. ABC Hunt

   ABC Hunt is an amusing indoor team building GAME that gets your virtual
   team out of their seats. In this GAME, a host names three random
   letters of the alphabet and the other team members scramble to find
   objects beginning with each letter. The person who finds three objects
   the fastest wins. ABC Hunt is also a versatile DIY team building GAME,
   since teams can play it remotely and at the office.

   Here is a list with more fun word GAME to play.

24. Pitch Me Your Business

   If you want to spark your team's entrepreneurial spirit, then Pitch Me
   Your Business is a wonderful GAME to try. For this GAME, team members
   have 15 minutes to come up with a basic business plan for an
   enterprise. Then, team members will present the business idea to a
   designated "investor". The person who dreams up the most intriguing
   business wins. Pitch Me Your Business is a smart team building GAME
   without materials because managers can informally evaluate team
   leadership and entrepreneurial skills through this GAME.

   Here are more competitive team building GAME to try.

25. Line GAME

   The Line GAME brings teams together by showing colleagues unexpected
   commonalities. Before initiating the GAME, create a list of experiences
   that underscore the commonalities your team members may have, ordering
   the list from lighthearted to more serious. Then, gather your team and
   have team members keep track of every experience. At the end of the
   GAME, collect your team's responses and display the results, showing
   your team how much they have in common.

26. Ambassadors

   Ambassadors is a lively GAME with no materials required where team
   members act as ambassadors for foreign countries. After assigning
   countries to players using a random country generator, each ambassador
   must describe the assigned country without revealing the country's
   name. The winner is the player who guesses the most countries
   correctly. Ambassadors is a great GAME for team building because it is
   educational and requires your team to exercise creative and
   communication skills.
--
   limericks. Then, have your team vote on which limericks are their
   favorites. The limerick with the most votes wins. Work Limericks is an
   excellent GAME because it lets your team exercise creativity and share
   creations with others.

28. Hangman

   A GAME you've probably played as a child, Hangman can also be effective
   for team building. Not only is your team already familiar with the
   rules, but Hangman also expands your team's vocabulary and establishes
--
29. Alphabet Chain

   Alphabet Chain is a terrific GAME for teams who wish to increase
   vocabularies. In this GAME, your team first settles on a topic. Then,
   team members must name words that fit in that topic. However, every
   word proposed needs to begin with the last letter of the previous one.
   If a team member is unable to think of a suitable word and breaks the
   chain, then that person must withdraw. The winner of the GAME is the
   last person still remaining. Since Alphabet Chain only requires an
   expansive vocabulary to play, no materials are needed, making it an
   easy GAME to start with.

30. Dance Off

   Dance Off is a fun GAME that lets your team express themselves through
   dance. As the name suggests, the objective of Dance Off is for your
   team to compete and see who the best dancer is. Create a playlist of
--
31. The Human Knot

   The Human Knot is one of the most popular free team building GAME. To
   play, teammates stand in a circle and grab the hands of coworkers
   across the way. Then, participants must detangle their arms without
   breaking their grip. This GAME improves problem-solving and
   communication skills among groups. The exercise requires no supplies or
   costs. Best of all, you can do the challenge repeatedly because the
--
Final Thoughts

   Team building GAME are a great way to liven up the workplace and do
   something fun with your team. And it's not all fun and GAME, there are
   a lot of benefits of team building too.

   Next, check out our list of morning meeting GAME for employees, these
   fun question GAME, and this list of GAME for large groups.

   We also have a list of ideas for employee engagement, list of summer
--
   these fun group activities and these quick team building ideas.

FAQ: Team building GAME

   Unsure about what constitutes a team building GAME or why you should
   engage in one? Here are some common questions about team building GAME
   to help you.

What are team building GAME?

   Team building GAME are competitions whose main goal is to promote
   productivity and cultivate friendships between team members. These
   GAME are usually low-stakes and focus on fun, and are not cutthroat
   matches. These activities are also known as "team bonding GAME", "team
   GAME for work", "team building activities."

Why is playing team building GAME important?

   Playing team building GAME and doing team building activities is way
   for people to interact in a fun, social way. These interactions have
   create strong connections, improve communication and more.

What are the benefits of playing team building GAME?

   The benefits of playing team building GAME include:
     * Fostering friendships among team members
     * Underscoring company culture
--

   These benefits are all great reasons why your team should invest in
   team building GAME. Not only will your team work better, but your
   coworkers will also have fun and be happier while working.

What are some examples of team building GAME?

   Some examples of team building GAME are:
     * ABC Hunt
     * Fancy Dress Day
--
     * Team Film Festival

What are the best corporate team building GAME for the office?

   The best corporate team building GAME for the office are:
     * Murder Mystery Party
     * Productivity Tracker
--
     * Plant Babies

   The best corporate team building GAME for the office are designed to
   feel like a break from work, and provide opportunities to socialize
   with your team members. Feel free to alter the rules to better tailor
   the GAME for your team.

What fun team building GAME can you play without materials?

   Need to throw together a quick and easy team building GAME? Here are
   some GAME that you can play without materials:
     * Two Truths and One Lie
     * Pitch Me Your Business
--
     * Alphabet Chain

   These GAME are simple to put together and do not require a huge amount
   of commitment to host. Using a laptop and video conferencing service,
   all these GAME can also be played remotely with your team.
   Share:
     * Twit
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-11">
<text>


   2.4Single-player GAME



   2.5Multiplayer GAME

     * 2.5.1GAME theory
--
     * 3.1Sports

     * 3.1.1Lawn GAME



   3.2Tabletop GAME

     * 3.2.1Dexterity and coordination GAME



   3.2.2Board GAME



   3.2.3Card GAME



   3.2.4Dice GAME



   3.2.5Domino and tile GAME



   3.2.6Pencil and paper GAME



   3.2.7Guessing GAME



   3.3Video GAME

     * 3.3.1Online GAME



   3.4Role-playing GAME



   3.5Business GAME


--

   [220px-Paris_-_Tout%C3%A2nkhamon%2C_le_Tr%C3%A9sor_du_Pharaon_-_Plateau
   _de_jeu_miniature_en_ivoire_-_005.jpg] Ancient Egyptian ivory GAME
   board in the exhibition of Tutankhamun's treasure in Paris
   (2019)[220px-Gaming_Board_Inscribed_for_Amenhotep_III_with_Separate_Sli
   ding_Drawer%2C_ca._1390-1353_B.C.E.%2C49.56a-b.jpg] Ancient Egyptian
   GAME board inscribed for Amenhotep III with separate sliding drawer,
--
   ard_Players%29%2C_60_x_73_cm%2C_oil_on_canvas%2C_Courtauld_Institute_of
   depicting a card GAME, in Courtauld Institute of Art (London)

   A GAME is a structured form of play, usually undertaken for
   entertainment or fun, and sometimes used as an educational tool.^[1]
   Many GAME are also considered to be work (such as professional players
   of spectator sports or GAME) or art (such as jigsaw puzzles or GAME
   involving an artistic layout such as Mahjong, solitaire, or some video
   GAME).

   GAME are sometimes played purely for enjoyment, sometimes for
--
   online; by amateurs or by professionals. The players may have an
   audience of non-players, such as when people are entertained by
   watching a chess championship. On the other hand, players in a GAME may
   constitute their own audience as they take their turn to play. Often,
   part of the entertainment for children playing a GAME is deciding who
   is part of their audience and who is a player. A toy and a GAME are not
   the same. Toys generally allow for unrestricted play whereas GAME
   present rules for the player to follow.

   Key components of GAME are goals, rules, challenge, and interaction.
   GAME generally involve mental or physical stimulation, and often both.
   Many GAME help develop practical skills, serve as a form of exercise,
   or otherwise perform an educational, simulational, or psychological
   role.

   Attested as early as 2600 BC,^[2]^[3] GAME are a universal part of
   human experience and present in all cultures. The Royal GAME of Ur,
   Senet, and Mancala are some of the oldest known GAME.^[4]

Definitions

   Look up GAME in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.

Ludwig Wittgenstein

   Ludwig Wittgenstein was probably the first academic philosopher to
   address the definition of the word GAME. In his Philosophical
   Investigations,^[5] Wittgenstein argued that the elements of GAME,
   such as play, rules, and competition, all fail to adequately define
   what GAME are. From this, Wittgenstein concluded that people apply the
   term GAME to a range of disparate human activities that bear to one
   another only what one might call family resemblances. As the following
   GAME definitions show, this conclusion was not a final one and today
   many philosophers, like Thomas Hurka, think that Wittgenstein was wrong
   and that Bernard Suits' definition is a good answer to the problem.^[6]
--

   French sociologist Roger Caillois, in his book Les JEU et les hommes
   (GAME and Men)(1961),^[7] defined a GAME as an activity that must have
   the following characteristics:
     * fun: the activity is chosen for its light-hearted character
--
       entertainment.
    3. If no goals are associated with a plaything, it is a toy. (Crawford
       notes that by his definition, (a) a toy can become a GAME element
       if the player makes up rules, and (b) The Sims and SimCity are
       toys, not GAME.) If it has goals, a plaything is a challenge.
    4. If a challenge has no "active agent against whom you compete", it
       is a puzzle; if there is one, it is a conflict. (Crawford admits
       that this is a subjective test. Video GAME with noticeably
       algorithmic artificial intelligence can be played as puzzles; these
       include the patterns used to evade ghosts in Pac-Man.)
--
       competition. (Competitions include racing and figure skating.)
       However, if attacks are allowed, then the conflict qualifies as a
       GAME.

   Crawford's definition may thus be rendered as: an interactive,
--

   Other definitions, however, as well as history, show that entertainment
   and GAME are not necessarily undertaken for monetary gain.

Other definitions

     * "A GAME is a form of art in which participants, termed players,
       make decisions in order to manage resources through GAME tokens in
       the pursuit of a goal." (Greg Costikyan)^[9] According to this
       definition, some "GAME" that do not involve choices, such as
       Chutes and Ladders, Candy Land, and War are not technically GAME
       any more than a slot machine is.
     * "A GAME is a form of play with goals and structure." (Kevin J.
       Maroney)^[10]
     * "A GAME is a system in which players engage in an artificial
       conflict, defined by rules, that results in a quantifiable
       outcome." (Katie Salen and Eric Zimmerman)^[11]
     * "A GAME is an activity among two or more independent
       decision-makers seeking to achieve their objectives in some
       limiting context." (Clark C. Abt)^[12]
     * "At its most elementary level then we can define GAME as an
       exercise of voluntary control systems in which there is an
       opposition between forces, confined by a procedure and rules in
       order to produce a disequilibrial outcome." (Elliot Avedon and
       Brian Sutton-Smith)^[13]
     * "To play a GAME is to engage in activity directed toward bringing
       about a specific state of affairs, using only means permitted by
       specific rules, where the means permitted by the rules are more
--
       possible such activity." (Bernard Suits)^[14]
     * "When you strip away the genre differences and the technological
       complexities, all GAME share four defining traits: a goal, rules,
       a feedback system, and voluntary participation." (Jane
       McGonigal)^[15]
--

   GAME can be characterized by "what the player does".^[8] This is often
   referred to as gameplay. Major key elements identified in this context
   are tools and rules that define the overall context of GAME.

Tools

   [220px-Game_pieces.jpg] A selection of pieces from different GAME.
   From top: Chess pawns, marbles, Monopoly tokens, dominoes, Monopoly
   hotels, jacks and checkers pieces.
--
   (e.g. miniatures, a ball, cards, a board and pieces, or a computer). In
   places where the use of leather is well-established, the ball has been
   a popular GAME piece throughout recorded history, resulting in a
   worldwide popularity of ball GAME such as rugby, basketball, soccer
   (football), cricket, tennis, and volleyball. Other tools are more
   idiosyncratic to a certain region. Many countries in Europe, for
   instance, have unique standard decks of playing cards. Other GAME such
   as chess may be traced primarily through the development and evolution
   of its GAME pieces.

   Many GAME tools are tokens, meant to represent other things. A token
   may be a pawn on a board, play money, or an intangible item such as a
   point scored.
--
   GAME such as hide-and-seek or tag do not use any obvious tool; rather,
   their interactivity is defined by the environment. GAME with the same
   or similar rules may have different gameplay if the environment is
   altered. For example, hide-and-seek in a school building differs from
   the same GAME in a park; an auto race can be radically different
   depending on the track or street course, even with the same cars.

--
   GAME are often characterized by their tools and rules. While rules are
   subject to variations and changes, enough change in the rules usually
   results in a "new" GAME. For instance, baseball can be played with
   "real" baseballs or with wiffleballs. However, if the players decide to
   play with only three bases, they are arguably playing a different GAME.
   There are exceptions to this in that some GAME deliberately involve
   the changing of their own rules, but even then there are often
   immutable meta-rules.
--
   and each player's goals.

   The rules of a GAME may be distinguished from its aims.^[16]^[17] For
   most competitive GAME, the ultimate aim is winning: in this sense,
   checkmate is the aim of chess.^[18] Common win conditions are being
   first to amass a certain quota of points or tokens (as in Settlers of
   Catan), having the greatest number of tokens at the end of the GAME (as
   in Monopoly), or some relationship of one's GAME tokens to those of
   one's opponent (as in chess's checkmate). There may also be
   intermediate aims, which are tasks that move a player toward winning.
   For instance, an intermediate aim in football is to score goals,
   because scoring goals will increase one's likelihood of winning the
   GAME, but is not alone sufficient to win the GAME.

   An aim identifies a sufficient condition for successful action, whereas
--
   score a goal on a penalty; while it is expected the player will try, it
   is not required. While meeting the aims often requires a certain degree
   of skill and (in some cases) luck, following the rules of a GAME merely
   requires knowledge of the rules and some careful attempt to follow
   them; it rarely (if ever) requires luck or demanding skills.
--
Skill, strategy, and chance

   A GAME's tools and rules will result in its requiring skill, strategy,
   luck, or a combination thereof, and are classified accordingly.

   GAME of skill include GAME of physical skill, such as wrestling, tug
   of war, hopscotch, target shooting, and stake, and GAME of mental
   skill such as checkers and chess. GAME of strategy include checkers,
   chess, Go, arimaa, and tic-tac-toe, and often require special equipment
   to play them. GAME of chance include gambling GAME (blackjack,
   Mahjong, roulette, etc.), as well as snakes and ladders and rock,
   paper, scissors; most require equipment such as cards or dice. However,
   most GAME contain two or all three of these elements. For example,
   American football and baseball involve both physical skill and strategy
   while tiddlywinks, poker, and Monopoly combine strategy and chance.
   Many card and board GAME combine all three; most trick-taking GAME
   involve mental skill, strategy, and an element of chance, as do many
   strategic board GAME such as Risk, Settlers of Catan, and Carcassonne.

Single-player GAME

   "Single-player GAME" redirects here. For single-player video GAME, see
   Single-player video GAME.

   Most GAME require multiple players. However, single-player GAME are
   unique in respect to the type of challenges a player faces. Unlike a
   GAME with multiple players competing with or against each other to
   reach the GAME's goal, a one-player GAME is a battle solely against an
   element of the environment (an artificial opponent), against one's own
   skills, against time, or against chance. Playing with a yo-yo or
   playing tennis against a wall is not generally recognized as playing a
   GAME due to the lack of any formidable opposition. Many GAME described
   as "single-player" may be termed actually puzzles or recreations.

Multiplayer GAME

   "Multiplayer GAME" redirects here. For multiplayer video GAME, see
   Multiplayer video GAME.
   [220px-The_Card_Players_by_Lucas_van_Leyden.jpg] The Card Players by
   Lucas van Leyden (1520) depicting a multiplayer card GAME

   A multiplayer GAME is a GAME of several players who may be independent
   opponents or teams. GAME with many independent players are difficult
   to analyze formally using GAME theory as the players may form and
   switch coalitions.^[19] The term "GAME" in this context may mean either
   a true GAME played for entertainment or a competitive activity
   describable in principle by mathematical GAME theory.

GAME theory
--
   Main article: GAME theory

   John Nash proved that GAME with several players have a stable solution
   provided that coalitions between players are disallowed. Nash won the
   Nobel prize for economics for this important result which extended von
   Neumann's theory of zero-sum GAME. Nash's stable solution is known as
   the Nash equilibrium.^[20]

   If cooperation between players is allowed, then the GAME becomes more
   complex; many concepts have been developed to analyze such GAME. While
   these have had some partial success in the fields of economics,
   politics and conflict, no good general theory has yet been
   developed.^[20]

   In quantum GAME theory, it has been found that the introduction of
   quantum information into multiplayer GAME allows a new type of
   equilibrium strategy not found in traditional GAME. The entanglement
   of player's choices can have the effect of a contract by preventing
   players from profiting from what is known as betrayal.^[21]
--
Types

   See also: List of GAME genres

   [220px-Tug-of-war.jpg] Tug of war is an easily organized, impromptu
   GAME that requires little equipment.

   GAME can take a variety of forms, from competitive sports to board
   GAME and video GAME.

  Sports
--

   Popular sports may have spectators who are entertained just by watching
   GAME. A community will often align itself with a local sports team
   that supposedly represents it (even if the team or most of its players
   only recently moved in); they often align themselves against their
--
   with sports fans.

    Lawn GAME

   Lawn GAME are outdoor GAME that can be played on a lawn; an area of
   mowed grass (or alternately, on graded soil) generally smaller than a
   sports field (pitch). Variations of many GAME that are traditionally
   played on a sports field are marketed as "lawn GAME" for home use in a
   front or back yard. Common lawn GAME include horseshoes, sholf,
   croquet, bocce, and lawn bowls.

  Tabletop GAME

   Main article: Tabletop GAME

   A tabletop GAME is a GAME where the elements of play are confined to a
   small area and require little physical exertion, usually simply
   placing, picking up and moving GAME pieces. Most of these GAME are
   played at a table around which the players are seated and on which the
   GAME's elements are located. However, many GAME falling into this
   category, particularly party GAME, are more free-form in their play
   and can involve physical activity such as mime. Still, these GAME do
   not require a large area in which to play them, large amounts of
   strength or stamina, or specialized equipment other than what comes in
   a box.

    Dexterity and coordination GAME

   This class of GAME includes any GAME in which the skill element
   involved relates to manual dexterity or hand-eye coordination, but
   excludes the class of video GAME (see below). GAME such as jacks,
   paper football, and Jenga require only very portable or improvised
   equipment and can be played on any flat level surface, while other
   examples, such as pinball, billiards, air hockey, foosball, and table
   hockey require specialized tables or other self-contained modules on
   which the GAME is played. The advent of home video GAME systems largely
   replaced some of these, such as table hockey, however air hockey,
   billiards, pinball and foosball remain popular fixtures in private and
   public GAME rooms. These GAME and others, as they require reflexes and
   coordination, are generally performed more poorly by intoxicated
   persons but are unlikely to result in injury because of this; as such
   the GAME are popular as drinking GAME. In addition, dedicated
   drinking GAME such as quarters and beer pong also involve physical
   coordination and are popular for similar reasons.

    Board GAME

   Main article: Board GAME

   [220px-Clann.jpg] Parcheesi is an American adaptation of a Pachisi,
   originating in India.

   Board GAME use as a central tool a board on which the players' status,
   resources, and progress are tracked using physical tokens. Many also
   involve dice or cards. Most GAME that simulate war are board GAME
   (though a large number of video GAME have been created to simulate
   strategic combat), and the board may be a map on which the players'
   tokens move. Virtually all board GAME involve "turn-based" play; one
   player contemplates and then makes a move, then the next player does
   the same, and a player can only act on their turn. This is opposed to
   "real-time" play as is found in some card GAME, most sports and most
   video GAME.

   Some GAME, such as chess and Go, are entirely deterministic, relying
   only on the strategy element for their interest. Such GAME are usually
   described as having "perfect information"; the only unknown is the
   exact thought processes of one's opponent, not the outcome of any
   unknown event inherent in the GAME (such as a card draw or die roll).
   Children's GAME, on the other hand, tend to be very luck-based, with
   GAME such as Candy Land and Chutes and Ladders having virtually no
   decisions to be made. By some definitions, such as that by Greg
   Costikyan, they are not GAME since there are no decisions to make
   which affect the outcome.^[9] Many other GAME involving a high degree
   of luck do not allow direct attacks between opponents; the random event
   simply determines a gain or loss in the standing of the current player
   within the GAME, which is independent of any other player; the "GAME"
   then is actually a "race" by definitions such as Crawford's.

   Most other board GAME combine strategy and luck factors; the GAME of
   backgammon requires players to decide the best strategic move based on
   the roll of two dice. Trivia GAME have a great deal of randomness
   based on the questions a person gets. German-style board GAME are
   notable for often having rather less of a luck factor than many board
   GAME.

   Board GAME groups include race GAME, roll-and-move GAME, abstract
   strategy GAME, word GAME, and warGAME, as well as trivia and other
   elements. Some board GAME fall into multiple groups or incorporate
   elements of other genres: Cranium is one popular example, where players
   must succeed in each of four skills: artistry, live performance,
   trivia, and language.

    Card GAME

   Main article: Card GAME

   Further information: Collectible card GAME

   [220px-Kaartspelers%2C_Theodoor_Rombouts%2C_17de_eeuw%2C_Koninklijk_Mus
--
   Theodoor Rombouts, 17th century

   Card GAME use a deck of cards as their central tool. These cards may
   be a standard Anglo-American (52-card) deck of playing cards (such as
   for bridge, poker, Rummy, etc.), a regional deck using 32, 36 or
   40 cards and different suit signs (such as for the popular German GAME
   skat), a tarot deck of 78 cards (used in Europe to play a variety of
   trick-taking GAME collectively known as Tarot, Tarock or Tarocchi
   GAME), or a deck specific to the individual GAME (such as Set or 1000
   Blank White Cards). Uno and Rook are examples of GAME that were
   originally played with a standard deck and have since been
   commercialized with customized decks. Some collectible card GAME such
   as Magic: The Gathering are played with a small selection of cards that
   have been collected or purchased individually from large available
   sets.

   Some board GAME include a deck of cards as a gameplay element,
   normally for randomization or to keep track of GAME progress.
   Conversely, some card GAME such as Cribbage use a board with movers,
   normally to keep score. The differentiation between the two genres in
   such cases depends on which element of the GAME is foremost in its
   play; a board GAME using cards for random actions can usually use some
   other method of randomization, while Cribbage can just as easily be
   scored on paper. These elements as used are simply the traditional and
   easiest methods to achieve their purpose.

    Dice GAME

   Main article: Dice GAME

   [220px-Math_GAME_-_Big_Brother_Mouse_activity_day.jpg] Students using
   dice to improve numeracy skills. They roll three dice, then use basic
   math operations to combine those into a new number which they cover on
   the board. The goal is to cover four squares in the row.

   Dice GAME use a number of dice as their central element. Board GAME
   often use dice for a randomization element, and thus each roll of the
   dice has a profound impact on the outcome of the GAME, however dice
   GAME are differentiated in that the dice do not determine the success
   or failure of some other element of the GAME; they instead are the
   central indicator of the person's standing in the GAME. Popular dice
   GAME include Yahtzee, Farkle, Bunco, Liar's dice/Perudo, and Poker
   dice. As dice are, by their very nature, designed to produce apparently
   random numbers, these GAME usually involve a high degree of luck,
   which can be directed to some extent by the player through more
   strategic elements of play and through tenets of probability theory.
   Such GAME are thus popular as gambling GAME; the GAME of Craps is
   perhaps the most famous example, though Liar's dice and Poker dice were
   originally conceived of as gambling GAME.

    Domino and tile GAME

   Main articles: Tile-based GAME and Dominoes

   Domino GAME are similar in many respects to card GAME, but the
   generic device is instead a set of tiles called dominoes, which
   traditionally each have two ends, each with a given number of dots, or
   "pips", and each combination of two possible end values as it appears
   on a tile is unique in the set. The GAME played with dominoes largely
   center around playing a domino from the player's "hand" onto the
   matching end of another domino, and the overall object could be to
--
   sets such as double-nine have been introduced to increase the number of
   dominoes available, which allows larger hands and more players in a
   GAME. Muggins, Mexican Train, and Chicken Foot are very popular domino
   GAME. Texas 42 is a domino GAME more similar in its play to a
   "trick-taking" card GAME.

   Variations of traditional dominoes abound: Triominoes are similar in
   theory but are triangular and thus have three values per tile.
   Similarly, a GAME known as Quad-Ominos uses four-sided tiles.

   Some other GAME use tiles in place of cards; Rummikub is a variant of
   the Rummy card GAME family that uses tiles numbered in ascending rank
   among four colors, very similar in makeup to a 2-deck "pack" of
   Anglo-American playing cards. Mahjong is another GAME very similar to
   Rummy that uses a set of tiles with card-like values and art.

   Lastly, some GAME use graphical tiles to form a board layout, on which
   other elements of the GAME are played. Settlers of Catan and
   Carcassonne are examples. In each, the "board" is made up of a series
   of tiles; in Settlers of Catan the starting layout is random but
   static, while in Carcassonne the GAME is played by "building" the board
   tile-by-tile. Hive, an abstract strategy GAME using tiles as moving
   pieces, has mechanical and strategic elements similar to chess,
   although it has no board; the pieces themselves both form the layout
   and can move within it.

    Pencil and paper GAME

   Main article: Paper-and-pencil GAME

   Pencil and paper GAME require little or no specialized equipment other
   than writing materials, though some such GAME have been commercialized
   as board GAME (Scrabble, for instance, is based on the idea of a
   crossword puzzle, and tic-tac-toe sets with a boxed grid and pieces are
   available commercially). These GAME vary widely, from GAME centering
   on a design being drawn such as Pictionary and "connect-the-dots" GAME
   like sprouts, to letter and word GAME such as Boggle and
   Scattergories, to solitaire and logic puzzle GAME such as Sudoku and
   crossword puzzles.

    Guessing GAME

   Main article: Guessing GAME

   A guessing GAME has as its core a piece of information that one player
   knows, and the object is to coerce others into guessing that piece of
   information without actually divulging it in text or spoken word.
   Charades is probably the most well-known GAME of this type, and has
   spawned numerous commercial variants that involve differing rules on
   the type of communication to be given, such as Catch Phrase, Taboo,
   Pictionary, and similar. The genre also includes many GAME shows such
   as Win, Lose or Draw, Password and $25,000 Pyramid.

  Video GAME

   Main article: Video GAME

   See also: Electronic GAME

   Video GAME are computer- or microprocessor-controlled GAME. Computers
   can create virtual spaces for a wide variety of GAME types. Some video
   GAME simulate conventional GAME objects like cards or dice, while
   others can simulate environs either grounded in reality or fantastical
   in design, each with its own set of rules or goals.

   A computer or video GAME uses one or more input devices, typically a
   button/joystick combination (on arcade GAME); a keyboard, mouse or
   trackball (computer GAME); or a controller or a motion sensitive tool
   (console GAME). More esoteric devices such as paddle controllers have
   also been used for input.

   There are many genres of video GAME; the first commercial video GAME,
   Pong, was a simple simulation of table tennis. As processing power
   increased, new genres such as adventure and action GAME were developed
   that involved a player guiding a character from a third person
   perspective through a series of obstacles. This "real-time" element
   cannot be easily reproduced by a board GAME, which is generally limited
   to "turn-based" strategy; this advantage allows video GAME to simulate
   situations such as combat more realistically. Additionally, the playing
   of a video GAME does not require the same physical skill, strength or
   danger as a real-world representation of the GAME, and can provide
   either very realistic, exaggerated or impossible physics, allowing for
   elements of a fantastical nature, GAME involving physical violence, or
   simulations of sports. Lastly, a computer can, with varying degrees of
   success, simulate one or more human opponents in traditional table
   GAME such as chess, leading to simulations of such GAME that can be
   played by a single player.

   In more open-ended computer simulations, also known as sandbox-style
   GAME, the GAME provides a virtual environment in which the player may
   be free to do whatever they like within the confines of this universe.
   Sometimes, there is a lack of goals or opposition, which has stirred
   some debate on whether these should be considered "GAME" or "toys".
   (Crawford specifically mentions Will Wright's SimCity as an example of
   a toy.)^[8]

    Online GAME

   Main article: Online GAME

   Online GAME have been part of culture from the very earliest days of
   networked and time-shared computers. Early commercial systems such as
   Plato were at least as widely famous for their GAME as for their
   strictly educational value. In 1958, Tennis for Two dominated Visitor's
   Day and drew attention to the oscilloscope at the Brookhaven National
--
   which was offered as a hands-on demo to visitors.

   Modern online GAME are played using an Internet connection; some have
   dedicated client programs, while others require only a web browser.
   Some simpler browser GAME appeal to more casual GAME-playing
   demographic groups (notably older audiences) that otherwise play very
   few video GAME.^[22]

  Role-playing GAME

   Main article: Role-playing GAME

   Role-playing GAME, often abbreviated as RPGs, are a type of GAME in
   which the participants (usually) assume the roles of characters acting
   in a fictional setting. The original role playing GAME - or at least
   those explicitly marketed as such - are played with a handful of
   participants, usually face-to-face, and keep track of the developing
--
   story involving those characters; create, develop, and "explore" the
   setting; or vicariously experience an adventure outside the bounds of
   everyday life. Pen-and-paper role-playing GAME include, for example,
   Dungeons &amp Dragons and GURPS.

   The term role-playing GAME has also been appropriated by the video GAME
   industry to describe a genre of video GAME. These may be single-player
   GAME where one player experiences a programmed environment and story,
   or they may allow players to interact through the internet. The
   experience is usually quite different from traditional role-playing
   GAME. Single-player GAME include Final Fantasy, Fable, The Elder
   Scrolls, and Mass Effect. Online multi-player GAME, often referred to
   as Massively Multiplayer Online role playing GAME, or MMORPGs, include
   RuneScape, EverQuest 2, Guild Wars, MapleStory, Anarchy Online, and
   Dofus. As of 2009^[update], the most successful MMORPG has been World
   of Warcraft, which controls the vast majority of the market.^[23]

  Business GAME

   Main article: Team building

   Business GAME can take a variety of forms, from interactive board
   GAME to interactive GAME involving different props (balls, ropes,
   hoops, etc.) and different kinds of activities. The purpose of these
   GAME is to link to some aspect of organizational performance and to
   generate discussions about business improvement. Many business GAME
   focus on organizational behaviors. Some of these are computer
   simulations while others are simple designs for play and debriefing.
--
  Simulation

   Main article: Simulation GAME

   The term "GAME" can include simulation^[24]^[25] or re-enactment of
   various activities or use in "real life" for various purposes: e.g.,
   training, analysis, prediction. Well-known examples are war GAME and
   role-playing. The root of this meaning may originate in the human
   prehistory of GAME deduced by anthropology from observing primitive
   cultures, in which children's GAME mimic the activities of adults to a
   significant degree: hunting, warring, nursing, etc. These kinds of
   GAME are preserved in modern times.^[original research?]

See also
--
   Wikimedia Commons has media related to GAME.

   Main article: Outline of GAME

     * GAME club - Association of people united by a common interest or
       goalPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
     * GAME mechanics - Construct, rule, or method designed for
       interaction with a GAME's state
     * Gamer - Hobbyist who plays video GAME
     * Girls' GAME and toys - Subset of toy and GAME that appeal to
       female childrenPages displaying short descriptions of redirect
       targets
     * History of GAME
     * Learning through play - Concept in education and psychology
     * List of GAME - Overview of and topical guide to GAMEPages
       displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
     * Ludeme - Basic unit of play
     * Ludibrium - Latin wordPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a
       fallback
     * Ludology - Study of GAME and the act of playing themPages
       displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
     * Ludomania - Repetitive gambling despite demonstrable harm and
       adverse consequencesPages displaying short descriptions of redirect
       targets
     * Mobile GAME - Video GAME played on a mobile device
     * N-player GAME - a GAME with n-players, typically used in contrast
       to 2-player GAMEPages displaying wikidata descriptions as a
       fallback
     * Personal computer GAME - Electronic GAME played on a personal
       computerPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets

--
       Press. ISBN 978-0-262-02444-0.
   20. ^ ^a ^b Laszlo Mero; Anna C. Gosi-Greguss; David Kramer (1998).
       Moral calculations: GAME theory, logic, and human frailty. New
       York: Copernicus. ISBN 978-0-387-98419-3.
   21. ^ Simon C. Benjamin &amp Patrick M. Hayden (13 August 2001).
       "Multiplayer quantum GAME". Physical Review A. 64 (3): 030301.
       arXiv:quant-ph/0007038. Bibcode:2001PhRvA..64c0301B.
       doi:10.1103/PhysRevA.64.030301. S2CID 32056578.
--
     * Video

   List of GAME genres

   Authority control databases Edit this at Wikidata
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-12">
<text>
     * Email

   Research has shown that there are many benefits to playing GAME in the
   classroom. When planning lessons, teachers should try to incorporate at
   least one GAME a day into one of the key learning areas as either a
   teaching and learning tool, assessment strategy or classroom motivator.

     "Play is our brain's favourite way of learning" - Diane Ackeman

   When playing GAME, students become more engaged in their learning,
   taught content is reinforced and class positivity is increased.

   In this blog we have outlined ten of the most important benefits
   students gain from playing GAME in the classroom. We have also
   selected some of our most popular Numeracy, Literacy, Technology,
   History and Fitness GAME for you to download and use in your own
   classroom.
     __________________________________________________________________
--
More Motivation

   Playing GAME in the classroom increases overall motivation. By playing
   GAME, students become more motivated to learn, pay attention and
   participate in set tasks. GAME help students to become a part of a
   team as well as take responsibility for their own learning. They can
--
   GAME are a great way to control the competitiveness between peers.

   By using GAME in the classroom, students can compete against each
   other whilst playing a GAME, then support each other during other
   learning activities.

Strategy Simulator

   Most GAME require problem-solving strategies and planning. By applying
   a range of strategies in a GAME, students are able to use their working
   memory to solve problems, increasing their mental cognition.
   Stimulating the brain with strategies in a GAME can be a great brain
   workout!

Peer Positivity

   Using GAME in a lesson as part of teaching and learning helps to
   create positivity around the lesson, motivating students with their
   participation and creating a positive attitude towards learning.
--
   negative perception of a students' learning environment.

   As an alternative to worksheets, GAME can be used as a less stressful
   way for students to demonstrate their knowledge, skill and
   understanding of a topic. Being less stressed will help students to
--
Mighty Memory

   Playing a range of content-specific GAME can increase memory! As they
   play a GAME, students need to remember important details about a topic
   but also use their working memory to think and act quickly.

   GAME that were made by the students can be some of the most effective.
   As students construct a GAME they are required to use their memory of
   specific content to create questions and answers suitable for the GAME,
   then use their memory of the topic to play the GAME.

Class Cooperation

   Playing GAME in the classroom increases class cooperation. Classroom
   GAME can also be used as a team-building exercise!

   Students need to work together as a team when playing as a whole class
   against the teacher, or in small team groups when playing GAME with
   each other.

--
Alert Attention

   Playing GAME requires students to pay great attention to detail. As
   GAME can move quickly, when playing a GAME a student needs to be alert
   and attentive.

   This attentiveness when playing a GAME can help students to stay
   focused on other tasks in the classroom throughout the day.

Friendly Fun

   Playing GAME in the classroom is always great fun!

   When playing a GAME, endorphins are produced that stimulate the brain
   and gives students a feeling of euphoria. This feeling of euphoria
   creates a great sense of happiness and excitement for students in the
--
   knowledge.

   After teaching new content to the class, provide students with a GAME
   that will consolidate their understanding and make connections with
   what they already know. Asking students to create their own
   content-specific GAME can also be a great way to assess students at
   the end of a unit of work.

--
   and some enthusiastic kids!

   For more active GAME inside and outside the classroom, check out our
   Active GAME Resource Collection.
     __________________________________________________________________
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-13">
<text>
   [ ] Toggle the table of contents

Strategy (GAME theory)

   [ ] 16 languages
--

   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
   Complete plan on how a GAME player will behave in every possible GAME
   situation
   For other uses of "Strategy", see Strategy (disambiguation).

   In GAME theory, a player's strategy is any of the options which they
   choose in a setting where the optimal outcome depends not only on their
   own actions but on the actions of others.^[1] The discipline mainly
   concerns the action of a player in a GAME affecting the behavior or
   actions of other players. Some examples of "GAME" include chess,
   bridge, poker, monopoly, diplomacy or battleship.^[2] A player's
   strategy will determine the action which the player will take at any
   stage of the GAME. In studying GAME theory, economists enlist a more
   rational lens in analyzing decisions rather than the psychological or
   sociological perspectives taken when analyzing relationships between
--
   The strategy concept is sometimes (wrongly) confused with that of a
   move. A move is an action taken by a player at some point during the
   play of a GAME (e.g., in chess, moving white's Bishop a2 to b3). A
   strategy on the other hand is a complete algorithm for playing the
   GAME, telling a player what to do for every possible situation
   throughout the GAME. It is helpful to think about a "strategy" as a
   list of directions, and a "move" as a single turn on the list of
   directions itself. This strategy is based on the payoff or outcome of
--
   A strategy profile (sometimes called a strategy combination) is a set
   of strategies for all players which fully specifies all actions in a
   GAME. A strategy profile must include one and only one strategy for
   every player.

--

   A player has a finite strategy set if they have a number of discrete
   strategies available to them. For instance, a GAME of rock paper
   scissors comprises a single move by each player--and each player's move
   is made without knowledge of the other's, not as a response--so each
--

   A strategy set is infinite otherwise. For instance the cake cutting
   GAME has a bounded continuum of strategies in the strategy set {Cut
   anywhere between zero percent and 100 percent of the cake}.

   In a dynamic GAME, GAME that are played over a series of time, the
   strategy set consists of the possible rules a player could give to a
   robot or agent on how to play the GAME. For instance, in the ultimatum
   GAME, the strategy set for the second player would consist of every
   possible rule for which offers to accept and which to reject.

   In a Bayesian GAME, or GAME in which players have incomplete
   information about one another, the strategy set is similar to that in a
   dynamic GAME. It consists of rules for what action to take for any
   possible private information.

Choosing a strategy set[edit]

   In applied GAME theory, the definition of the strategy sets is an
   important part of the art of making a GAME simultaneously solvable and
   meaningful. The GAME theorist can use knowledge of the overall problem,
   that is the friction between two or more players, to limit the strategy
   spaces, and ease the solution.

   For instance, strictly speaking in the Ultimatum GAME a player can have
   strategies such as: Reject offers of ($1, $3, $5, ..., $19), accept
   offers of ($0, $2, $4, ..., $20). Including all such strategies makes
   for a very large strategy space and a somewhat difficult problem. A
   GAME theorist might instead believe they can limit the strategy set to:
   {Reject any offer <lt= x, accept any offer >gt x; for x in ($0, $1, $2,
   ..., $20)}.
--

   A pure strategy provides a complete definition of how a player will
   play a GAME. Pure strategy can be thought about as a singular concrete
   plan subject to the observations they make during the course of the
   GAME of play. In particular, it determines the move a player will make
   for any situation they could face. A player's strategy set is the set
   of pure strategies available to that player.

   A mixed strategy is an assignment of a probability to each pure
   strategy. When enlisting mixed strategy, it is often because the GAME
   doesn't allow for a rational description in specifying a pure strategy
   for the GAME. This allows for a player to randomly select a pure
   strategy. (See the following section for an illustration.) Since
   probabilities are continuous, there are infinitely many mixed
--
   decide which way to block it. Also, the kicker has a direction they are
   best at shooting, which is left if they are right-footed. The matrix
   for the soccer GAME illustrates this situation, a simplified form of
   the GAME studied by Chiappori, Levitt, and Groseclose (2002).^[3] It
   assumes that if the goalie guesses correctly, the kick is blocked,
   which is set to the base payoff of 0 for both players. If the goalie
--
    Payoff for the Soccer GAME (Kicker, Goalie)

   This GAME has no pure-strategy equilibrium, because one player or the
   other would deviate from any profile of strategies--for example, (Left,
   Left) is not an equilibrium because the Kicker would deviate to Right
--

   In his famous paper, John Forbes Nash proved that there is an
   equilibrium for every finite GAME. One can divide Nash equilibria into
   two types. Pure strategy Nash equilibria are Nash equilibria where all
   players are playing pure strategies. Mixed strategy Nash equilibria are
   equilibria where at least one player is playing a mixed strategy. While
   Nash proved that every finite GAME has a Nash equilibrium, not all have
   pure strategy Nash equilibria. For an example of a GAME that does not
   have a Nash equilibrium in pure strategies, see Matching pennies.
   However, many GAME do have pure strategy Nash equilibria (e.g. the
   Coordination GAME, the Prisoner's dilemma, the Stag hunt). Further,
   GAME can have both pure strategy and mixed strategy equilibria. An
   easy example is the pure coordination GAME, where in addition to the
   pure strategies (A,A) and (B,B) a mixed equilibrium exists in which
   both players play either strategy with probability 1/2.
--
   random choices are then seen as consequences of non-specified,
   payoff-irrelevant exogenous factors.^[5] A second interpretation
   imagines the GAME players standing for a large population of agents.
   Each of the agents chooses a pure strategy, and the payoff depends on
   the fraction of agents choosing each strategy. The mixed strategy hence
--
   equilibrium, however, since it is possible in such an equilibrium for
   each player to actually play a pure strategy of Rock in each play of
   the GAME, even though over time the probabilities are those of the
   mixed strategy.

--
   probability distribution over the set of possible actions. While the
   two concepts are very closely related in the context of normal form
   GAME, they have very different implications for extensive form GAME.
   Roughly, a mixed strategy randomly chooses a deterministic path through
   the GAME tree, while a behavior strategy can be seen as a stochastic
   path. The relationship between mixed and behavior strategies is the
   subject of Kuhn's theorem, a behavioral outlook on traditional
   GAME-theoretic hypotheses. The result establishes that in any finite
   extensive-form GAME with perfect recall, for any player and any mixed
   strategy, there exists a behavior strategy that, against all profiles
   of strategies (of other players), induces the same distribution over
--
   A famous example of why perfect recall is required for the equivalence
   is given by Piccione and Rubinstein (1997)^[full citation needed] with
   their Absent-Minded Driver GAME.

Outcome equivalence[edit]
--
Strategy with perfect recall[edit]

   Perfect recall is defined as the ability of every player in GAME to
   remember and recall all past actions within the GAME. Perfect recall is
   required for equivalence as, in finite GAME with imperfect recall,
   there will be existing mixed strategies of Player I in which there is
   no equivalent behavior strategy. This is fully described in the
   Absent-Minded Driver GAME formulated by Piccione and Rubinstein. In
   short, this GAME is based on the decision-making of a driver with
   imperfect recall, who needs to take the second exit off the highway to
   reach home but does not remember which intersection they are at when
   they reach it. Figure [2] describes this GAME.

   Without perfect information (i.e. imperfect information), players make
--
   have preceded it. Therefore, a player's mixed strategy can produce
   outcomes that their behavioral strategy cannot, and vice versa. This is
   demonstrated in the Absent-minded Driver GAME. With perfect recall and
   information, the driver has a single pure strategy, which is [continue,
   exit], as the driver is aware of what intersection (or decision node)
--
   planning-optimal stage only, the maximum payoff is achieved by
   continuing at both intersections, maximized at p=2/3 (reference). This
   simple one player GAME demonstrates the importance of perfect recall
   for outcome equivalence, and its impact on normal and extended form
   GAME.^[9]

See also[edit]
--
     * e

   Topics in GAME theory
   Definitions
     * Congestion GAME
     * Cooperative GAME
     * Determinacy
     * Escalation of commitment
     * Extensive-form GAME
     * First-player and second-player win
     * GAME complexity
     * Graphical GAME
     * Hierarchy of beliefs
     * Information set
     * Normal-form GAME
     * Preference
     * Sequential GAME
     * Simultaneous GAME
     * Simultaneous action selection
     * Solved GAME
     * Succinct GAME

   Equilibrium
--
     * Shapley value
     * Strong Nash equilibrium
     * SubGAME perfection
     * Trembling hand

--

   Classes
   of GAME

     * Bargaining problem
     * Cheap talk
     * Global GAME
     * Intransitive GAME
     * Mean-field GAME
     * Mechanism design
     * n-player GAME
     * Perfect information
     * Large Poisson GAME
     * Potential GAME
     * Repeated GAME
     * Screening GAME
     * Signaling GAME
     * Stackelberg competition
     * Strictly determined GAME
     * Stochastic GAME
     * Symmetric GAME
     * Zero-sum GAME

   GAME
--
     * Tic-tac-toe
     * Prisoner's dilemma
     * Gift-exchange GAME
     * Optional prisoner's dilemma
     * Traveler's dilemma
     * Coordination GAME
     * Chicken
     * Centipede GAME
     * Lewis signaling GAME
     * Volunteer's dilemma
     * Dollar auction
--
     * Stag hunt
     * Matching pennies
     * Ultimatum GAME
     * Rock paper scissors
     * Pirate GAME
     * Dictator GAME
     * Public goods GAME
     * Blotto GAME
     * War of attrition
     * El Farol Bar problem
     * Fair division
     * Fair cake-cutting
     * Cournot GAME
     * Deadlock
     * Diner's dilemma
     * Guess 2/3 of the average
     * Kuhn poker
     * Nash bargaining GAME
     * Induction puzzles
     * Trust GAME
     * Princess and monster GAME
     * Rendezvous problem

--
     * Bertrand paradox
     * Bounded rationality
     * Combinatorial GAME theory
     * Confrontation analysis
     * Coopetition
     * Evolutionary GAME theory
     * First-move advantage in chess
     * GAME Description Language
     * GAME mechanics
     * Glossary of GAME theory
     * List of GAME theorists
     * List of GAME in GAME theory
     * No-win situation
     * Solving chess
     * Topological GAME
     * Tragedy of the commons
     * Tyranny of small decisions
--

   Retrieved from
   "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Strategy_(game_theory)&ampoldi
   d=1174256965"

   Category:
     * Strategy (GAME theory)

   Hidden categories:
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-14">
<text>
    2. Advice and support
    3. Help to support someone else
    4. Why are drinking GAME dangerous?

Why are drinking GAME dangerous?

   Drinking GAME can mean drinking a lot, quickly, putting you at risk of
   accidents and alcohol poisoning.
     *
--
On this page

     * Who plays drinking GAME and why?
     * Risks of drinking GAME
     * Tips to stay in control
     * Drinking GAME and the low risk drinking guidelines

   Share
--

   Although they are something that many people experience when growing
   up, drinking GAME are far from being harmless fun. Taking part could
   mean you end up drinking a lot more than you intend, more quickly,
   increasing your risk of accidents and alcohol poisoning - which can be
   fatal.

   Read on to find out more about why drinking GAME can be dangerous, and
   how to stay in control.

Who plays drinking GAME, when and why?

   Any kind of drinking GAME - whether it's based on gambling, chance, a
   `forfeit' for breaking rules, or a competition - can mean people those
   taking part drink more than they want, faster than they intend. If you
--
   drink - and the risks increase the more you drink.

   Drinking GAME are common among young adults, with peer pressure to fit
   in commonly given as a reason for taking part.

--
   as we're social creatures, peer pressure can affect anyone of any age.

   And if drinking GAME are played as part of `pre-loading' (drinking
   before going out) they are associated with higher levels of alcohol
   consumption, and greater risk.^2 Find out more on our binge drinking
--
   Freshers' week survival guide

Risks of drinking GAME

   Drinking alcohol very quickly - whether as part of a drinking GAME or
   not - can lead to acute alcohol poisoning, which can be extremely
   dangerous.
--
   decision you regret, whether this means walking home alone, having
   unprotected sex, or not being able to look out for friends, drinking
   GAME present real dangers.

   Binge drinking increases the likelihood of both becoming aggressive or
--
Tips to stay in control

   Peer pressure in social situations around drinking GAME can affect
   anyone. Try these tips to stay in control.
     * (BUTTON)
--
Be kind to your future self

   Opting out of a drinking GAME will lower your risk of alcohol
   poisoning. It could also help you avoid a hangover, or making a
   decision you might regret - like texting an ex- or behaving in
--
Control your wallet

   Drinking GAME can be very expensive - buying huge rounds at the bar
   can rapidly burn through your money. Put the money you save towards a
   treat for yourself.
--
   Ideas for drink-free days

Drinking GAME and the UK low risk drinking guidelines

   The UK Chief Medical Officers' (CMO) low risk drinking
--
   alcoholic drinks with water and planning ahead to avoid problems.

   Getting involved in drinking GAME can seriously speed up the rate you
   drink so you're more likely to exceed the guidelines.

--
   drink-free days, and no bingeing.

   Following the low risk drinking guidelines and avoiding drinking GAME
   can help keep your risk low from accidents and injuries, physical or
   sexual abuse, alcohol poisoning and a range of long-term health
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-15">
<text>

</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-16">
<text>

   healthy kids health center/healthy kids a-z list/what is the most
   dangerous GAME parents must know article

   MedicineNet
--

     * 11 Dangerous GAME
          + 11 dangerous GAME parents should know about

   dangerous GAME parents should know about
   Children are especially vulnerable to the dangers of risky GAME and
   challenges online

--

   Every time your child is online, there is a potential threat to their
   privacy, as well as yours. Many online sites and GAME can digitally
   tracking your location, which can be misused by cybercriminals and
   perpetrators of child abuse.

   However, something that parents may not be aware of is that there are
   tons of challenges and GAME on social media, where kids are encouraged
   to engage in extremely dangerous behavior. It's important to take
   necessary precautions to protect your kids:
--
     * Keep sharp or harmful objects away from them

   The first step, though, is knowing which GAME are the most popular.

11 dangerous GAME parents should know about

Blue Whale challenge

   This is an online suicide GAME led by a social media group where
   administrators ask children and teenagers to take on a series of
   challenges that end with them eventually killing themselves. This GAME
   is responsible for hundreds of teen suicides worldwide. Players are
   required to do a series of bizarre tasks in 50 days, putting peer
--

   A 21-year-old Russian, Philipp Budeikin, was found to be the mastermind
   behind this GAME and was arrested. However, some suspect that the GAME
   still exists and is being managed by other people

Choking GAME

   Also known as the fainting GAME, the choking GAME is where children and
   teens strangle themselves or strangle each other on video. The GAME is
   meant to cause deprivation of oxygen to the brain resulting in a
   feeling of being  high (similar to alcohol or recreational drugs),
--

   This challenge involves biting down on a brightly colored laundry
   detergent packet and spitting out or ingesting its contents. This GAME
   began as a joke with children, but it can cause serious health
   problems, especially if they swallow the detergent. Tide pods are
   brightly colored and look like candy. Children are attracted to such
   products and may ingest them accidentally, even outside the GAME. It is
   therefore best to keep these items out of your child's reach.

--
   This is an online prank that targets younger children, giving them
   dangerous instructions such as turning on gas in the stove at midnight
   when nobody is awake and then going back to sleep. The GAME promises
   children that if they do this, they will wake up and become fire
   fairies. This GAME has resulted in fires and serious burn injuries in
   children.

Mariam's GAME

   This is an online GAME that revolves around a child lost in the forest
   who asks players to help find her way back home. The GAME has
   frightening audio and visual sound effects. Players are asked a series
   of personal questions as they accompany the little girl home. This is
--
Five-finger fillet

   This is a GAME that involves stabbing a knife between each finger,
   really fast, with the goal of not hitting any finger. However, this has
   resulted in serious hand injuries in many people, including older teens
--
Cutting challenge

   This is an online GAME that encourages children and teens to cut their
   own arms, legs, or other body parts with a razor blade or knife.
   Following this, they need to take pictures, show their friends or post
--
Charlie Charlie

   Charlie Charlie, an urban legend GAME, has gained some popularity due
   to social media stars filming themselves playing it. The concept is
   similar to an Ouija board:
--
   because of a breeze or other children trying to shake them.

   Although the GAME does not cause any physical danger, it can deeply
   affect children's mental health. Fear of ghosts and demons causes many
   children to become scared, have night terrors and insomnia, wet the
--

   References
   https://www.webmd.com/parenting/features/dangerous-GAME-parents-must-k
   now-about
   https://www.familyeducation.com/mobile-apps/a-complete-guide-to-potenti
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-17">
<text>


   1.3.1.3Birds (upland GAME birds)


--
   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
   Wild animals under pursuit or taken in hunting
   "Wild GAME" redirects here. For the novel, see Wild GAME.
   This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss
   these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these
--
   (Learn how and when to remove this template
   message)[220px-Phasianus_colchicus_2_tom_%28Lukasz_Lukasik%29.jpg]
   Common pheasant, widely introduced and hunted as GAME

   GAME or quarry is any wild animal hunted for animal products (primarily
   meat), for recreation ("sporting"), or for trophies.^[1] The species of
   animals hunted as GAME varies in different parts of the world and by
   different local jurisdictions, though most are terrestrial mammals and
   birds. Fish caught non-commercially (recreational fishing) are also
   referred to as GAME fish.

By continent and region[edit]
--
   varieties and breeds of a particular animal, such as wild turkey and
   domestic turkey. The flesh of the animal, when butchered for
   consumption, is often described as having a "gamey" flavour. This
   difference in taste can be attributed to the natural diet of the
   animal, which usually results in a lower fat content compared to
   domestic farm-raised animals.

   In some countries, GAME is classified, including legal classifications
   with respect to licenses required, as either "small GAME" or "large
   GAME". A single small GAME licence may cover all small GAME species and
   be subject to yearly bag limits. Large GAME are often subject to
   individual licensing where a separate permit is required for each
   individual animal taken (tags).
--

   In Africa, animals hunted for their pelts or ivory are sometimes
   referred to as big GAME.

   Also see the legal definition of GAME in Eswatini.^[2]

South Africa[edit]

   South Africa is a famous destination for GAME hunting, with its large
   biodiversity and therefore impressive variety of GAME species. Many
   creatures have returned to former areas from which they were once taken
   as a result of being killed for big-GAME hunting. Commonly hunted
   species include:
     * Springbok
--
     * Plains Zebra

   South Africa also has 62 species of gamebirds, including guineafowl,
   francolin, partridge, quail, sandgrouse, duck, geese, snipe, bustard
   and korhaan. Some of these species are no longer hunted, and of the 44
   indigenous gamebirds that can potentially be utilised in South Africa,
   only three, namely the yellow-throated sandgrouse, Delegorgue's pigeon
   and the African pygmy goose warrant special protection. Of the
--
   distribution range in the last 25 years or so. The status of 14 species
   appears unchanged, with insufficient information being available for
   the remaining three species. The gamebirds of South Africa where the
   population status in 2005 was secure or growing are listed below:
     * Helmeted guineafowl
--
Australia[edit]

   In Australia, GAME includes:

     * Deer and sambar
--
    Canada and the United States[edit]

   Big-GAME hunting

   See also: Upland GAME bird and country food

   In the United States and Canada, white-tailed deer are the most
   commonly hunted big GAME. Other GAME species include:
   [170px-Virginia-Wachtel_2007-06-16_059.jpg] Bobwhite quail, an
   important North American gamebird[220px-White-tailed_deer.jpg]
   White-tailed deer

--
     * Raven

Birds (upland GAME birds)

     * Dove
--
   London

   In the UK GAME is defined in law by the GAME Act 1831. It is illegal to
   shoot GAME on Sundays or at night. Other non-GAME birds that are hunted
   for food in the UK are specified under the Wildlife and Countryside Act
   1981. UK law defines GAME as including:
     * Black grouse (No longer hunted due to decline in numbers)
     * Red grouse
--
    Iceland[edit]

   In Iceland GAME includes:
     * Reindeer
     * Rock ptarmigan, a popular Christmas dish in Iceland
--
    Poland[edit]

   In Poland, legal GAME includes:^[3]
   Big GAME

     * Moose
--
     * European mouflon

   Small GAME

     * Fox
--
   [220px-Attributed_to_Frans_Hals%2C_1625-1630%2C_A_Kitchen_Interior_with
   _a_Maid_and_a_Lady_Preparing_GAME.jpg] A kitchen interior with a maid
   and a lady preparing GAME, c. 1600

   GAME meat is typically taken from a wild animal that has been shot with
   a gun or bow. Hunters must be absolutely certain of their target before
   shooting and should make every effort to get the animal down as quickly
   and painlessly as possible. Once obtained, GAME meat must be processed
   to avoid spoiling. The method of processing varies by GAME species and
   size. Small GAME and fowl may simply be carried home to be butchered.
   Large GAME such as deer is quickly field-dressed by removing the
   viscera in the field, while very large animals like moose may be
   partially butchered in the field because of the difficulty of removing
--
   minimize spoilage.

   Traditionally, GAME meat was hung until "high" or "gamey", that is,
   approaching a state of decomposition.^[4] However, this adds to the
   risk of contamination. Small GAME can be processed essentially intact,
   after gutting and skinning or defeathering (by species). Small animals
   are ready for cooking, although they may be disjointed first. Large
   GAME must be processed by techniques commonly practiced by commercial
   butchers.

--
     * GAME

   Generally GAME is cooked in the same ways as farmed meat.^[5] Because
   some GAME meat is leaner than store-bought beef, overcooking is a
   common mishap which can be avoided if properly prepared.^[6]^[7] It is
   sometimes grilled or cooked longer or by slow cooking or moist-heat
   methods to make it more tender, since some GAME tends to be tougher
   than farm-raised meat. Other methods of tenderizing include marinating
   as in the dish Hasenpfeffer, cooking in a GAME pie or as a stew such as
   burgoo.

--
   The Norwegian Food Safety Authority considers that children, pregnant
   women, fertile-aged women, and people with high blood pressure should
   not consume GAME shot with lead-based ammunition more than once a
   month. Children who often eat such GAME might develop a slightly lower
   IQ, as lead influences the development of the central nervous
   system.^[8]
--

     * Animal trapping
     * Big GAME hunting
     * British Association for Shooting and Conservation
     * Bushfood
--
       the Minister of Environment of 11 March 2005 regarding specifying
       list of GAME species]. Regulation of 11 March 2005 (PDF) (in
       Polish). 2005-03-22. Retrieved 2022-07-27 - via Sejm
       (isap.sejm.gov.pl).
    4. ^ Oxford English Dictionary, 3rd edition, s.v. high adj. A.II.12d,
       gamey 1a
    5. ^ "GAME-to-Eat". 2007-05-02.
    6. ^ "About GAME Meat". 2007-05-19. Archived from the original on
--
     * Honey
     * Pine honey
     * Wild GAME

     * Berries
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-18">
<text>
   favorite traditional dishes. But even the most beloved main dishes can
   become a little tired. We have a suggestion for making your meals a
   little different and possibly even more delicious: Bring GAME meat to
   your dining room table.

   In addition to lamb, beef, pork, and poultry, numerous meat-centric
   wholesalers and retailers around the country also offer wild and
   farm-raised GAME meats. GAME meats are usually categorized as the
   following:
     * Winged GAME, such as quail, duck, and pheasant.
     * Ground GAME, such as hare and rabbit.
     * Big GAME, such as bison, venison, elk, and wild boar.

   They're not only interesting from a culinary perspective but are
--
   our diets.

   This feature highlights some of our favorite GAME meats and how they
   can be used as alternatives to the common center-of-the-plate proteins
   such as poultry, pork, and beef.
--
Pheasant

   Pheasant is one of the most approachable GAME birds, perfect for those
   new to the world of GAME meats. Similar to the size of a chicken, a
   whole pheasant averages about 2 to 3 pounds. It has lean meat that is
   full of flavor, making it a great alternative to chicken and
--
Squab

   Smaller than pheasant and often called a young pigeon, squab is a GAME
   bird usually only about 1 pound or less in size. Unlike pheasant, its
   meat throughout is a red dark meat (similar to duck or dark meat
--
Quail

   As the smallest of the GAME birds on this list, quail is another great
   substitute for poultry. Its meat looks very similar to chicken but more
   intense and pronounced in flavor. Typically weighing just 4 to 6
--
   be simply pan roasted.

   Like other GAME birds, the meat is lean. While it should be cooked
   through until juices run clear, it cooks very quickly and can become
   dry if overcooked; basting or brushing with fat will help retain
   moisture. Because of their small size, quail is one of the easiest and
   fastest GAME birds to prepare, and it is also incredibly versatile.

   Flavor Pairings
--
Bison

   For someone new to GAME meat, one of the easiest ways to get an
   introduction is by substituting a favorite beef dish with
   bison. Although very similar to cattle in its nature, farmed bison does
--
Venison

   Perhaps one of the more familiar GAME meats, venison refers to the meat
   from deer. Although hunting for deer is legal in certain areas and at
   certain times of the year, the venison available for purchase from
--
Wild Boar

   One of the wildest of the GAME meats, wild boar is one of the oldest
   species in existence, dating back to before the Ice Age. Native wild
   boar is found in various regions throughout the world and has been a
--
   How to Prepare

   Similar to other GAME meats, wild boar is best cooked gently over low
   heat and, if using a dry heat method, not overcooked. Instead of a
   crown pork roast, make a crown wild boar rack. Instead of Christmas
--
   GAME meat can sometimes be found at meat counters and specialty
   butchers. Check with your local farmers market as well. There are a
   variety of retailers selling GAME meats online that offer nationwide
   delivery.
   Where's the Beef? Chew On These Top Beef Cuts
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-19">
<text>
   System Fishing System Deals
   Phelps
   Quality GAME calls
   Phelps
   Elk Calls Deer Calls Turkey Calls Waterfowl Calls Predator Calls Deals
--
   Steven Rinella May 14, 2018

   Unlike big GAME hunting, where there are typically separate seasons for
   firearms and archery equipment, there are no legal incentives to hunt
   small GAME with a bow. There are a few exceptions to this rule,
   including an archery-only duck hunt on a coastal refuge in the vicinity
   of Anchorage, Alaska. That alone should make you interested in archery
   equipment.

   Instead, the decision to hunt small GAME with a bow typically comes
   down to personal aesthetics. Some hunters value a challenge as much or
   more as they value wild meat, and the thrill of hitting, or trying to
--
   Nothing will meet these all of these challenges as efficiently as a
   fast-shooting compound bow. What's more, by using the same bow for both
   big GAME and small GAME hunting, you'll be practicing for big GAME
   hunting while chasing small GAME, and vice-versa.

   Traditional vs Compound
   But if you're considering a bow purchase strictly for small GAME, and
   more particularly for flushed rabbits and GAME birds, you should
   consider going with a traditional recurve or longbow that will allow
   you to take snapshots at the fast-moving GAME. A compound bow must be
   held at full draw to aim and fire; this takes time and prevents snap
   shooting. Here are some additional pros and cons to consider when
   purchasing a bow that you'll use for small GAME hunting.
   Top: Compound bow. This is a Hoyt Carbon Spyder with Easton Full Metal
   Jacket Arrow and a Wasp Archery fixed blade broadhead. Bottom: A
   traditional bow. Shown here is a Hoyt Tiburon recurve with High Plains
   Hunter arrow and Judo small GAME point.

   Compound Bow
--
   and ask questions. When one of us says something, it's helpful if the
   rest of us knows what they're talking about. To that end, here's a
   basic rundown of methods and strategies used by small GAME hunters:
   still hunting; spot and stalk...
   Tips for Recovering Downed Small GAME
--
   picking it up. Often, though, things are much more tricky than that.
   Recovery can be hard, time-consuming work when hunting in brushy or
   swampy areas where downed small GAME can be hidden from sight. Here are
   some tips to help you recover more GAME and bring more meat to the
   table. If you connect on a shot...
   Tips for Car Camping for Small GAME
--
   Steven Rinella

   For whatever reason, it seems as though big GAME hunters are far more
   likely than small GAME hunters to hit the road and spend a few nights
   camping out in the field. That's too bad, because road trips can be
   extremely productive for small GAME hunting, especially when you travel
   to areas that receive very little hunting pressure. At various points
   in our lives, my brothers and I have done annual road trips for
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-20">
<text>
   From the affordable to the insanely expensive, any of these guns will
   serve you well should you come face to face with one of the world's
   aggressive GAME species

   By Richard Mann | Published Jan 30, 2019 7:00 PM EST
     * Guns

   dangerous GAME rifles hunting ox
   Richard Mann

--
   We may earn revenue from the products available on this page and
   participate in affiliate programs. Learn More >gt
   young hunter kneeling next to giant black ox No, a dangerous GAME rifle
   does not have to cost as much as a used pickup truck. But, it does have
   to pack a punch and be every time, all the time, reliable. Richard Mann

   Regardless of what you've read, and what you might hear experts advise,
   the number one requirement of a dangerous GAME rifle is reliability. It
   can be exquisitely beautiful with engravings of naked concubines and
   vicious creatures, but if it does not work every time and all the time,
   it is not a dangerous GAME rifle.

   Many believe a rifle of this sort has to be expensive but that's not
   the case. It only must work and deliver a hard enough hit to get the
   job done. Knowing those facts, if you can afford to hunt dangerous
   GAME, you can probably afford a reliable and (very) nice hard-hitting
   rifle. To help find one that's right for you, here is a list of 20 of
   the finest dangerous GAME guns available, working from a beer to a
   champagne budget.
   Mossberg Patriot Laminate Marinecote rifle
--
   Mossberg Patriot Laminate Marinecote o Price: $629

   When most folks think of dangerous GAME rifles, they think of broken
   wallets and maxed-out credit cards. It doesn't have to be that way.
   Mossberg's Patriot Laminate is a rugged and reliable bolt-action rifle.
   It comes with open sights, a fantastically functional detachable
   magazine, and a great trigger. It's also chambered for the .375 Ruger,
   which is all the gun you need for dangerous GAME, whether it be lions,
   tigers or bears.
   http://www.anrdoezrs.net/links/8265158/type/dlg/https://www.basspro.com
--

   Drilled and tapped for scope mounting, but also fitted with adjustable
   open sights, and chambered for the most classic of all dangerous-GAME
   cartridges--the .375 H&ampH--this rifle is ready for rough country and
   perilous encounters. The stainless steel action and barrel are fitted
--
   stalking. Many professional hunters prefer the 550's Mauser-style
   extractor and fixed ejector, and the rifle is available for most of the
   hard-hitting big bore cartridges synonymous with dangerous GAME
   hunting.
   Ruger Hawkeye African rifle
--
   Available in .375 H&ampH, .416 Remington Magnum, and .458 Winchester
   Magnum, the Model 70 Safari Express is a fine representation of what
   many expect in a dangerous GAME rifle. The satin finished stock has cut
   checkering, the steel bottom metal is one-piece, and the pre-64
   Winchester action is one that is revered by African professional
--

   Though this may not be the traditional action and cartridge associated
   with dangerous GAME hunting, the Ruger No. 1 offers a level of
   reliability and strength that is unmatched. And, the .475 Linebaugh
   cartridge will push a 370-grain bullet to almost 1,600 fps. The
--
   With three times the ammo capacity of a double rifle and faster
   follow-up shots than a bolt action, it could be argued that this fine
   quality .45-70 from the Marlin Custom Shop is ideal for dangerous GAME.
   Custom crafted to your color preferences, the action of this Marlin
   Model 1895 is smoothed to perfection, and all metal surfaces are coated
--

   Don't let anyone tell you the push-feed Model 700 action is not up to
   the task when it comes to dangerous GAME hunting. Not only is it
   reliable, but you can drop a cartridge in the ejection port and close
   the bolt for a follow-up shot if you run the rifle dry--something most
--

   Gorgeous and deadly might be the best way to describe this bolt-action
   rifle built for African safaris and dangerous GAME hunting. Constructed
   on the famous Dakota Model 76 action, it's available for right or left
   hand shooters, with a XXX walnut stock, hand-cut checkering, ebony
--
   The brand new Professional Hunter from Dakota Arms features their
   respected Model 76 action and a custom fiberglass stock with pillar
   bedding. Designed for the dangerous GAME hunter who values ruggedness
   over beauty, the rifle's 23-inch Premium Douglas barrel is Cerakoted
   and a quarter rib fixed sight and hooded fiber optic front sight are
--
   sophistication of modern manufacturing technology, the beautiful
   Krieghoff Classic Double rifle is available in the most common
   chamberings for an African safari or dangerous GAME hunting. It
   features a manual cocking device that allows carrying while fully
   loaded with the hammers uncocked. With options that include additional
--

   For more than 35 years, the Heym 88B has been the company's flagship
   dangerous GAME rifle, and it's likely the most common double rifle in
   Africa. Handcrafted for a perfect fit and with a host of customizing
   options available, holding this rifle can make your knees feel weak.
--
   grand. A few customizations later you have created what might be the
   most fabulous rifle ever. With a rifle like this, it won't matter if
   you ever hunt dangerous GAME or not--you can just sit by the fire ring
   and brag about it.
   Holland &amp Holland Royal Double Rifle
--

   Holland &amp Holland's Royal Double rifle might be the most iconic
   dangerous GAME rifle of all time. Built to deal with any four-legged
   danger while providing the instinctive handling of a finely fitted
   shotgun, these rifles exude luxury, craftsmanship, and history.
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-21">
<text>
30 Fantastic Party GAME to Make Your Next Gathering a Blast

   Forget elaborate props and pricy board GAME--these entertaining party
   GAME are simple, easy to play, and fun for everyone.
   By
   Lauren Phillips
--
     * Kids

   Thinking of party GAME may bring to mind memories of Pin the Tail on
   there that won't make you feel like a kid again. Like road trip GAME,
   clever party GAME can be tailored to the crowd playing them, and these
   ideas are practically guaranteed to make sure everyone has a great
   time.

   If there's no room in your party-planning checklist for GAME time,
   that's fine. (Sometimes, great conversations and catching up with
   distant friends are all a successful gathering needs.) But if you would
   rather fill your holiday party with laughter and activity, or if you
   need to keep little ones entertained, these people-pleasing party GAME
   have you covered.
   Party GAME, ideas for adults, kids, and families Party GAME, ideas
   for adults, kids, and families
   Getty Images

   Because these GAME have flexible rules and little to no supplies, you
   can keep them casual and make them work for any event, whether it's a
   birthday party, a holiday celebration, or an intimate gathering around
   a small dining table. Most can work for adults or kids, depending on
   what rules you play by. They're all great for families, so you have
   something to do after your gift exchange ideas and GAME or
   Thanksgiving feast besides gathering around the TV.

   Pick a few party GAME that work for you, and keep them in mind for any
   gathering. They're so easy to explain and play that you can whip them
   out at a moment's notice if the party's energy begins to fall, saving
--
   The Best GAME for Entertaining at Home

Party GAME for any occasion and all ages

   1. Saran Wrap GAME
--
   item to place at the center of your saran wrap ball. Wrap it thoroughly
   in plastic wrap, then add more items as your wrapped ball gets bigger,
   trapping them in layers of wrap. (To make the GAME more challenging,
   tear the wrap into smaller sheets as you go.) Once you've used a whole
   roll of wrap (or more, if desired), you're ready to play.
--
   4. Most Likely To

   This party GAME works best for close groups of friends or family
   members. Gather in a circle. Begin with one person asking, "Who's most
   likely to trip over their own feet?" (Or another situation, trait,
--
   pointed at them is out. Go around the circle asking, "Who's most likely
   to..." until all but one person is out. You can skip the eliminations
   to make the GAME last longer.

   5. Never Have I Ever
--
   saying "Never have I ever..." must hold up a finger. Continue around
   the circle until one person has three fingers up: They're out. This
   party GAME can get as racy as you make it, so play carefully and set
   ground rules ahead of time if sensitive grandparents, kids, or
   conservative guests are involved.
--
   7. Heads Up!

   This GAME requires an app: The Heads Up! app is available from the App
   Store and Google Play. After the 99-cent purchase and download, though,
   you have hours of entertainment on-hand at all times. (In-app purchases
--
   8. I'm Hosting a Party...

   For a more cognitive GAME, play this brain teaser. Say you're hosting a
   party, and only people who bring the right contributions are given an
   invitation. Pick a secret rule: Typically, everyone must bring
--
   to three continents, and I love cats," for example. Two should be true;
   one should be a lie. Everyone else must guess which is the lie, and
   then the next person goes. This is a great getting-to-know-you GAME; if
   you're playing with family or friends, pick obscure details to trick
   each other to make it even more fun.
--
   10. Sticker Stalker

   Purchase a pack of stickers. (This one is a great Christmas party GAME
   or Halloween party GAME, so try to find stickers that suit the
   occasion.) Give everyone one sheet of five to 10 stickers (or less,
   depending on the size of the party). This GAME works best at a party
   where everyone is mingling, so you can incorporate it easily into your
   happy hour or neighborhood function. Each person must discreetly place
--
   the seats next to them. The person in the middle will also be racing
   for a chair; whoever is left standing at the end stands in the circle
   next, and the GAME continues.

   12. Spoons
--
   This is a trickier take on I'm Hosting a Party. Sit in a circle and
   designate yourself as the host. (Just don't tell everyone the name of
   the GAME.) Say you are hosting a party but will only invite people
   bringing the right items. Go around the circle and have everyone
   suggest contributions; the host will say who is invited and who isn't.
--
   19. Mr. Freeze

   Pick one person to be Mr. Freeze. Have everyone playing the GAME move
   around the party as usual. When Mr. Freeze freezes, though, everyone
   else must freeze too. Whoever freezes last is out. Repeat for the
--
   20. Musical Chairs

   Okay, it's a popular party GAME for kids, but adults can also get in on
   the fun. Set up chairs (or seat cushions) in a circle facing outward,
   with enough seating for everyone playing, minus one. Designate one
--
   21. Charades

   This tried-and-true party GAME can be as simple or as complicated as
   you make it. Have everyone write down concepts, movies, people, shows,
   and more to act out and divide into teams. One person will act out
--
   9 Virtual GAME to Play When You Can't Be Together

How to make any party GAME a drinking GAME

   For adults, if you want things to get a little wild, just add alcohol.
   For most GAME, instead of someone being "out" after losing, have them
   take a sip of their drink (or a shot, if you're feeling particularly
   rowdy). In GAME involving rule-making (Kings, Cheers to the Governor,
   etc.), any rule can be turned into an instruction to drink: Women
   drink, men drink, people wearing black drink, etc. If you are
   introducing drinking GAME to your gathering, drink responsibly, and
   stay safe. (And don't forget to offer non-alcoholic mocktail options
   for designated drivers and people who are staying sober.)

Party GAME for adults

   24. Telephone Pictionary
--
   25. Mafia

   This GAME is also known as Assassin, Werewolf, or Village. If you have
   a large group, a deck of cards, a lot of time, and long attention
   spans, this intense puzzle of a GAME is a lot of fun, if a little
   complicated. See the full rules for Mafia; essentially, certain members
   of the group are the bad guys (the mafia, assassins, etc.); others are
   villagers, and still more are police officers. One is the GAME
   moderator. The police officers are trying to guess who the bad guys are
   before they can kill all the villagers.
--
   Find Your Party Planning Style

Party GAME for kids (and kids at heart)

   27. I Spy
--
   29. Minute to Win It GAME

   If you've ever seen the old TV GAME show, these are funny physical or
   mental challenges that your party guests have to complete in under a
   minute (great for a lot of laughs). Think picking up Cheerios with a
--
   30. Limbo

   This time-honored party GAME lets kids try to see how low they can go.
   (All you need is a broom and some calypso music to make limbo happen!)
   Was this page helpful?
--
   Road Trip GAME Road Trip GAME
   20 Fun Road Trip GAME for Adults
   new-years-eve-GAME-GettyImages-1195050503 (1)
   new-years-eve-GAME-GettyImages-1195050503 (1)
   New Year's Party GAME to Celebrate 2024
   creative-gift-exchange-GAME creative-gift-exchange-GAME
   30+ Gift Exchange Ideas--Including GAME, Traditions, and Tips
   hand holding red teapot and roses and teacups on a green background
--
   40 Fun Things to Do When It's Too Hot Outside (and You Don't Have a
   Pool)
   virtual-board-GAME: colorful dice for Yahtzee virtual-board-GAME:
   colorful dice for Yahtzee
   Board GAME Gathering Dust? Try These Creative Ways to Play Them
--
   Kids Playing 4th of July GAME Kids Playing 4th of July GAME
   4th of July GAME to Keep Kids Entertained All Day
   people playing a board GAME at home people playing a board GAME at home
   8 Fun and Challenging Board GAME to Help Pass the Time When You're
   Stuck Indoors
--
   outdoor-entertaining-GettyImages-1408935851
   30 Outdoor Entertaining Ideas That'll Save You Tons of Time
   Father's Day activities and GAME - things to do on Father's Day
   (father and child) Father's Day activities and GAME - things to do on
   Father's Day (father and child)
   28 Great Father's Day Activities and GAME the Whole Family Will Enjoy
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-22">
<text>
     * 2.1Definition

     2.2Video GAME terminology


--


   5.2Intellectual property for video GAME


--
   [ ] Toggle the table of contents

Video GAME

   [ ] 122 languages
--
   Page semi-protected
   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
   Electronic GAME with user interface and visual feedback

   "Video GAME" redirects here. For other uses, see Video GAME
   (disambiguation).
   "Computer GAME" redirects here. For other uses, see Computer GAME
   (disambiguation).

--
   console at the Computerspielemuseum Berlin
   [60px-WPVG_icon_2016.svg.png]
            Video GAME
   Platforms
     * Arcade video GAME
     * Console GAME
          + GAME console
          + Home console
          + Handheld console
     * Electronic GAME
          + Audio GAME
          + Electronic handheld
     * Online GAME
          + Browser GAME
          + Social-network GAME
     * Mobile GAME
     * PC GAME
          + Linux
          + Mac
     * Virtual reality GAME

   Genres
--

   Lists
     * Arcade GAME
          + highest-grossing
     * Best-selling GAME
          + franchises
     * Longest-running franchises
     * Most-played mobile GAME
     * GAME considered the best
          + GAME of the Year
          + soundtracks
     * Negative reception
     * Cancelled GAME

   Development
     * GAME AI
     * GAME design
          + Video GAME design
          + Interaction
     * Programming
--
     * e

   A video GAME^[a] or computer GAME is an electronic GAME that involves
   interaction with a user interface or input device (such as a joystick,
   controller, keyboard, or motion sensing device) to generate visual
--
   on a television set, computer monitor, flat-panel display or
   touchscreen on handheld devices, or a virtual reality headset. Most
   modern video GAME are audiovisual, with audio complement delivered
   through speakers or headphones, and sometimes also with other types of
   sensory feedback (e.g., haptic technology that provides tactile
   sensations), and some video GAME also allow microphone and webcam
   inputs for in-GAME chatting and livestreaming.

   Video GAME are typically categorized according to their hardware
   platform, which traditionally includes arcade video GAME, console
   GAME, and computer (PC) GAME; the latter also encompasses LAN GAME,
   online GAME, and browser GAME. More recently, the video GAME industry
   has expanded onto mobile gaming through mobile devices (such as
   smartphones and tablet computers), virtual and augmented reality
   systems, and remote cloud gaming. Video GAME are also classified into
   a wide range of genres based on their style of gameplay and target
   audience.

   The first video GAME prototypes in the 1950s and 1960s were simple
   extensions of electronic GAME using video-like output from large,
   room-sized mainframe computers. The first consumer video GAME was the
   arcade video GAME Computer Space in 1971. In 1972 came the iconic hit
   GAME Pong and the first home console, the Magnavox Odyssey. The
   industry grew quickly during the "golden age" of arcade video GAME
   from the late 1970s to early 1980s but suffered from the crash of the
   North American video GAME market in 1983 due to loss of publishing
   control and saturation of the market. Following the crash, the industry
   matured, was dominated by Japanese companies such as Nintendo, Sega,
   and Sony, and established practices and methods around the development
   and distribution of video GAME to prevent a similar crash in the
   future, many of which continue to be followed. In the 2000s, the core
   industry centered on "AAA" GAME, leaving little room for riskier
   experimental GAME. Coupled with the availability of the Internet and
   digital distribution, this gave room for independent video GAME
   development (or "indie GAME") to gain prominence into the 2010s. Since
   then, the commercial importance of the video GAME industry has been
   increasing. The emerging Asian markets and proliferation of smartphone
   GAME in particular are altering player demographics towards casual
   gaming and increasing monetization by incorporating GAME as a service.

   Today, video GAME development requires numerous interdisciplinary
   skills, vision, teamwork, and liaisons between different parties,
   including developers, publishers, distributors, retailers, hardware
   manufacturers, and other marketers, to successfully bring a GAME to its
   consumers. As of 2020^[update], the global video GAME market had
   estimated annual revenues of US$159 billion across hardware, software,
   and services, which is three times the size of the global music
   industry and four times that of the film industry in 2019,^[1] making
   it a formidable heavyweight across the modern entertainment industry.
   The video GAME market is also a major influence behind the electronics
   industry, where personal computer component, console, and peripheral
   sales, as well as consumer demands for better GAME performance, have
   been powerful driving factors for hardware design and innovation.

Origins

   Main articles: History of video GAME and Early history of video GAME

   Further information: History of arcade video GAME

   [220px-Tennis_For_Two_on_a_DuMont_Lab_Oscilloscope_Type_304-A.jpg]
   Tennis for Two (1958), an early analog computer GAME that used an
   oscilloscope for a display

   Early video GAME use interactive electronic devices with various
   display formats. The earliest example is from 1947--a "cathode-ray tube
   amusement device" was filed for a patent on 25 January 1947, by Thomas
--
   arc of a dot on the screen to simulate a missile being fired at
   targets, which are paper drawings fixed to the screen.^[3] Other early
   examples include Christopher Strachey's draughts GAME, the Nimrod
   computer at the 1951 Festival of Britain; OXO, a tic-tac-toe computer
   GAME by Alexander S. Douglas for the EDSAC in 1952; Tennis for Two, an
   electronic interactive GAME engineered by William Higinbotham in 1958;
   and Spacewar!, written by Massachusetts Institute of Technology
   students Martin Graetz, Steve Russell, and Wayne Wiitanen's on a DEC
   PDP-1 computer in 1961. Each GAME has different means of display:
   NIMROD has a panel of lights to play the GAME of Nim,^[4] OXO has a
   graphical display to play tic-tac-toe,^[5] Tennis for Two has an
   oscilloscope to display a side view of a tennis court,^[3] and
--

   These preliminary inventions paved the way for the origins of video
   GAME today. Ralph H. Baer, while working at Sanders Associates in
   1966, devised a control system to play a rudimentary GAME of table
   tennis on a television screen. With the company's approval, Baer built
   the prototype "Brown Box". Sanders patented Baer's inventions and
   licensed them to Magnavox, which commercialized it as the first home
   video GAME console, the Magnavox Odyssey, released in 1972.^[3]^[7]
   Separately, Nolan Bushnell and Ted Dabney, inspired by seeing Spacewar!
   running at Stanford University, devised a similar version running in a
   smaller coin-operated arcade cabinet using a less expensive computer.
   This was released as Computer Space, the first arcade video GAME, in
   1971.^[8] Bushnell and Dabney went on to form Atari, Inc., and with
   Allan Alcorn, created their second arcade GAME in 1972, the hit ping
   pong-style Pong, which was directly inspired by the table tennis GAME
   on the Odyssey. Sanders and Magnavox sued Atari for infringement of
   Baer's patents, but Atari settled out of court, paying for perpetual
   rights to the patents. Following their agreement, Atari made a home
   version of Pong, which was released by Christmas 1975.^[3] The success
   of the Odyssey and Pong, both as an arcade GAME and home machine,
   launched the video GAME industry.^[9]^[10] Both Baer and Bushnell have
   been titled "Father of Video GAME" for their contributions.^[11]^[12]

Terminology

   The term "video GAME" was developed to distinguish this class of
   electronic GAME that were played on some type of video display rather
   than on a teletype printer, audio speaker or similar device.^[13] This
   also distinguished from many handheld electronic GAME like Merlin
   which commonly used LED lights for indicators but did not use these in
   combination for imaging purposes.^[14]

   "Computer GAME" may also be used as a descriptor, as all these types of
   GAME essentially require the use of a computer processor, and in some
   cases, it is used interchangeably with "video GAME".^[15] Particularly
   in the United Kingdom and Western Europe, this is common due to the
   historic relevance of domestically produced microcomputers. Other terms
   used include digital GAME, for example by the Australian Bureau of
   Statistics.^[16] However, the term "computer GAME" can also be used to
   more specifically refer to GAME played primarily on personal computers
   or other type of flexible hardware systems (also known as a PC GAME),
   as a way distinguish them from console GAME, arcade GAME or mobile
   GAME.^[14]^[13] Other terms such as "television GAME" or "teleGAME"
   had been used in the 1970s and early 1980s, particularly for the home
   gaming consoles that rely on connection to a television set.^[17] In
   Japan, where consoles like the Odyssey were first imported and then
   made within the country by the large television manufacturers such as
   Toshiba and Sharp Corporation, such GAME are known as "TV GAME", or
   TV geemu or terebi geemu.^[18] "Electronic GAME" may also be used to
   refer to video GAME, but this also incorporates devices like early
   handheld electronic GAME that lack any video output.^[15] and the term
   "TV GAME" is still commonly used into the 21st century.^[18]^[19]

   The first appearance of the term "video GAME" emerged around 1973. The
   Oxford English Dictionary cited a 10 November 1973 BusinessWeek article
   as the first printed use of the term.^[20] Though Bushnell believed the
--
   Cashbox showed that the term came much earlier, appearing first around
   March 1973 in these magazines in mass usage including by the arcade
   GAME manufacturers. As analyzed by video GAME historian Keith Smith,
   the sudden appearance suggested that the term had been proposed and
   readily adopted by those involved. This appeared to trace to Ed Adlum,
--
   founded RePlay Magazine, covering the coin-op amusement field, in 1975.
   In a September 1982 issue of RePlay, Adlum is credited with first
   naming these GAME as "video GAME": "RePlay's Eddie Adlum worked at
   'Cash Box' when 'TV GAME' first came out. The personalities in those
   days were Bushnell, his sales manager Pat Karns and a handful of other
   'TV GAME' manufacturers like Henry Leyser and the McEwan brothers. It
   seemed awkward to call their products 'TV GAME', so borrowing a word
   from Billboard's description of movie jukeboxes, Adlum started to refer
   to this new breed of amusement machine as 'video GAME.' The phrase
   stuck."^[citation needed] Adlum explained in 1985 that up until the
   early 1970s, amusement arcades typically had non-video arcade GAME
   such as pinball machines and electro-mechanical GAME. With the arrival
   of video GAME in arcades during the early 1970s, there was initially
   some confusion in the arcade industry over what term should be used to
   describe the new GAME. He "wrestled with descriptions of this type of
   GAME," alternating between "TV GAME" and "television GAME" but "finally
   woke up one day" and said, "what the hell... video GAME!"^[22]

   For many years, the traveling Videotopia exhibit served as the closest
   representation of such a vital resource. In addition to collecting home
   video GAME consoles, the Electronics Conservancy organization set out
   to locate and restore 400 antique arcade cabinets after realizing that
   the majority of these GAME had been destroyed and feared the loss of
   their historical significance.^[23] Video GAME have significantly
   began to be seen in the real-world as a purpose to present history in a
   way of understanding the methodology and terms that are being compared.
   Researchers have looked at how historical representations affect how
   the public perceives the past, and digital humanists encourage
   historians to use video GAME as primary materials.^[24] Video GAME,
   considering their past and age, have over time progressed as what a
   video GAME really means. Whether played through a monitor, TV, or a
   hand-held device, there are many ways that video GAME are being
   displayed for users to enjoy. People have drawn comparisons between
   flow-state-engaged video gamers and pupils in conventional school
   settings. In traditional, teacher-led classrooms, students have little
   say in what they learn, are passive consumers of the information
   selected by teachers, are required to follow the pace and skill level
   of the group (group teaching), and receive brief, imprecise, normative
   feedback on their work.^[25] Video GAME, as they continue to develop
   into better graphic definition and genre's, create new terminology when
   something unknown tends to become known. Yearly, consoles are being
   created to compete against other brands with similar functioning
   features that tends to lead the consumer into which they'd like to
   purchase. Now, companies have moved towards GAME only the specific
   console can play to grasp the consumer into purchasing their product
   compared to when video GAME first began, there was little to no
   variety. In 1989, a console war begun with Nintendo, one of the biggest
   in gaming was up against target, Sega with their brand new Master
--
   people's houses for more than just office and daily use. GAME began
   being implemented into computers and have progressively grown since
   then with coded robots to play against you. Early GAME like
   tic-tac-toe, solitaire, and Tennis for Two were great ways to bring new
   gaming to another system rather than one specifically meant for
--
  Definition

   While many GAME readily fall into a clear, well-understood definition
   of video GAME, new genres and innovations in GAME development have
   raised the question of what are the essential factors of a video GAME
   that separate the medium from other forms of entertainment.

   The introduction of interactive films in the 1980s with GAME like
   Dragon's Lair, featured GAME with full motion video played off a form
   of media but only limited user interaction.^[28] This had required a
   means to distinguish these GAME from more traditional board GAME that
   happen to also use external media, such as the Clue VCR Mystery GAME
   which required players to watch VCR clips between turns. To distinguish
   between these two, video GAME are considered to require some
   interactivity that affects the visual display.^[14]

   Most video GAME tend to feature some type of victory or winning
   conditions, such as a scoring mechanism or a final boss fight. The
   introduction of walking simulators (adventure GAME that allow for
   exploration but lack any objectives) like Gone Home, and empathy GAME
   (video GAME that tend to focus on emotion) like That Dragon, Cancer
   brought the idea of GAME that did not have any such type of winning
   condition and raising the question of whether these were actually
   GAME.^[29] These are still commonly justified as video GAME as they
   provide a GAME world that the player can interact with by some
   means.^[30]

   The lack of any industry definition for a video GAME by 2021 was an
   issue during the case Epic GAME v. Apple which dealt with video GAME
   offered on Apple's iOS App Store. Among concerns raised were GAME like
   Fortnite Creative and Roblox which created metaverses of interactive
   experiences, and whether the larger GAME and the individual experiences
   themselves were GAME or not in relation to fees that Apple charged for
   the App Store. Judge Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers, recognizing that there was
   yet an industry standard definition for a video GAME, established for
   her ruling that "At a bare minimum, videoGAME appear to require some
   level of interactivity or involvement between the player and the
   medium" compared to passive entertainment like film, music, and
   television, and "videoGAME are also generally graphically rendered or
   animated, as opposed to being recorded live or via motion capture as in
   films or television".^[31] Rogers still concluded that what is a video
   GAME "appears highly eclectic and diverse".^[31]

  Video GAME terminology

   See also: Glossary of video GAME terms

   [220px-Freedoom002_01.png] Freedoom, a clone of the first-person
--
   bottom that includes the player's remaining health and ammunition.

   The gameplay experience varies radically between video GAME, but many
   common elements exist. Most GAME will launch into a title screen and
   give the player a chance to review options such as the number of
   players before starting a GAME. Most GAME are divided into levels
   which the player must work the avatar through, scoring points,
   collecting power-ups to boost the avatar's innate attributes, all while
--
   This information is relayed to the player through a type of on-screen
   user interface such as a heads-up display atop the rendering of the
   GAME itself. Taking damage will deplete their avatar's health, and if
   that falls to zero or if the avatar otherwise falls into an
   impossible-to-escape location, the player will lose one of their lives.
   Should they lose all their lives without gaining an extra life or
   "1-UP", then the player will reach the "GAME over" screen. Many levels
   as well as the GAME's finale end with a type of boss character the
   player must defeat to continue on. In some GAME, intermediate points
   between levels will offer save points where the player can create a
   saved GAME on storage media to restart the GAME should they lose all
   their lives or need to stop the GAME and restart at a later time. These
   also may be in the form of a passage that can be written down and
   reentered at the title screen.^[citation needed]
--
   Product flaws include software bugs which can manifest as glitches
   which may be exploited by the player; this is often the foundation of
   speedrunning a video GAME. These bugs, along with cheat codes, Easter
   eggs, and other hidden secrets that were intentionally added to the
   GAME can also be exploited.^[32]^[33]^[34]^[35] On some consoles, cheat
   cartridges allow players to execute these cheat codes, and
   user-developed trainers allow similar bypassing for computer software
   GAME. Both of which might make the GAME easier, give the player
   additional power-ups, or change the appearance of the GAME.^[33]

Components

   [220px-Arcade_Sugoi_Malmi_Helsinki.jpg] Arcade video GAME machines at
   the Sugoi arcade GAME hall in Malmi, Helsinki, Finland

   To distinguish from electronic GAME, a video GAME is generally
   considered to require a platform, the hardware which contains computing
   elements, to process player interaction from some type of input device
--
   improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this
   section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
--
   the Computer GAME Museum in Berlin

   Video GAME require a platform, a specific combination of electronic
   components or computer hardware and associated software, to
   operate.^[37] The term system is also commonly used. GAME are
   typically designed to be played on one or a limited number of
   platforms, and exclusivity to a platform is used as a competitive edge
   in the video GAME market.^[38] However, GAME may be developed for
   alternative platforms than intended, which are described as ports or
   conversions. These also may be remasters - where most of the original
   GAME's source code is reused and art assets, models, and GAME levels
   are updated for modern systems - and remakes, where in addition to
   asset improvements, significant reworking of the original GAME and
   possibly from scratch is performed.^[39]

   The list below is not exhaustive and excludes other electronic devices
   capable of playing video GAME such as PDAs and graphing calculators.

   PC GAME
          PC GAME involve a player interacting with a personal computer
          (PC) connected to a video monitor.^[40] Personal computers are
          not dedicated GAME platforms, so there may be differences
          running the same GAME on different hardware. Also, the openness
          allows some features to developers like reduced software
          cost,^[41] increased flexibility, increased innovation,
          emulation, creation of modifications or mods, open hosting for
          online gaming (in which a person plays a video GAME with people
          who are in a different household) and others. A gaming computer
          is a PC or laptop intended specifically for gaming, typically
          using high-performance, high-cost components. In additional to
          personal computer gaming, there also exist GAME that work on
          mainframe computers and other similarly shared systems, with
          users logging in remotely to use the computer.
--
   Home console
          [220px-PS2-Fat-Console-Set.jpg] The PlayStation 2 is the
          best-selling video GAME console, with over 155 million units
          sold.^[42]A console GAME is played on a home console, a
          specialized electronic device that connects to a common
          television set or composite video monitor. Home consoles are
          specifically designed to play GAME using a dedicated hardware
          environment, giving developers a concrete hardware target for
          development and assurances of what features will be available,
          simplifying development compared to PC GAME development. Usually
          consoles only run GAME developed for it, or GAME from other
          platform made by the same company, but never GAME developed by
          its direct competitor, even if the same GAME is available on
          different platforms. It often comes with a specific GAME
          controller. Major console platforms include Xbox, PlayStation
          and Nintendo.

   Handheld console
          A handheld GAME console is a small, self-contained electronic
          device that is portable and can be held in a user's hands. It
          features the console, a small screen, speakers and buttons,
          joystick or other GAME controllers in a single unit. Like
          consoles, handhelds are dedicated platforms, and share almost
          the same characteristics. Handheld hardware usually is less
          powerful than PC or console hardware. Some handheld GAME from
          the late 1970s and early 1980s could only play one GAME. In the
          1990s and 2000s, a number of handheld GAME used cartridges,
          which enabled them to be used to play many different GAME. The
          handheld console has waned in the 2010s as mobile device gaming
          has become a more dominant factor.

   Arcade video GAME
          [220px-Light_gun_survival_horror_arcade_GAME.jpg] A
          police-themed arcade GAME in which players use a light gun An
          arcade video GAME generally refers to a GAME played on an even
          more specialized type of electronic device that is typically
          designed to play only one GAME and is encased in a special,
          large coin-operated cabinet which has one built-in console,
          controllers (joystick, buttons, etc.), a CRT screen, and audio
          amplifier and speakers. Arcade GAME often have brightly painted
          logos and images relating to the theme of the GAME. While most
          arcade GAME are housed in a vertical cabinet, which the user
          typically stands in front of to play, some arcade GAME use a
          tabletop approach, in which the display screen is housed in a
          table-style cabinet with a see-through table top. With table-top
          GAME, the users typically sit to play. In the 1990s and 2000s,
          some arcade GAME offered players a choice of multiple GAME. In
          the 1980s, video arcades were businesses in which GAME players
          could use a number of arcade video GAME. In the 2010s, there
          are far fewer video arcades, but some movie theaters and family
          entertainment centers still have them.

   Browser GAME
          A browser GAME takes advantages of standardizations of
          technologies for the functionality of web browsers across
          multiple devices providing a cross-platform environment. These
          GAME may be identified based on the website that they appear,
          such as with Miniclip GAME. Others are named based on the
          programming platform used to develop them, such as Java and
          Flash GAME.

   Mobile GAME
          With the introduction of smartphones and tablet computers
          standardized on the iOS and Android operating systems, mobile
          gaming has become a significant platform. These GAME may use
          unique features of mobile devices that are not necessary present
          on other platforms, such as accelerometers, global positing
          information and camera devices to support augmented reality
          gameplay.

   Cloud gaming
--
          hardware device connected to a display with good Internet
          connectivity that connects to hardware systems by the cloud
          gaming provider. The GAME is computed and rendered on the remote
          hardware, using a number of predictive methods to reduce the
          network latency between player input and output on their display
--
          [220px-GAMEcom_Playstation_VR_Playseat_%2836454815300%29.jpg]
          Players using the PlayStation VR headsets in 2017 Virtual
          reality (VR) GAME generally require players to use a special
          head-mounted unit that provides stereoscopic screens and motion
          tracking to immerse a player within virtual environment that
--

   Emulation
          An emulator enables GAME from a console or otherwise different
          system to be run in a type of virtual machine on a modern
          system, simulating the hardware of the original and allows old
          GAME to be played. While emulators themselves have been found
          to be legal in United States case law, the act of obtaining the
          GAME software that one does not already own may violate
          copyrights. However, there are some official releases of
          emulated software from GAME manufacturers, such as Nintendo with
          its Virtual Console or Nintendo Switch Online offerings.

   Backward compatibility
          Backward compatibility is similar in nature to emulation in that
          older GAME can be played on newer platforms, but typically
          directly though hardware and build-in software within the
          platform. For example, the PlayStation 2 is capable of playing
          original PlayStation GAME simply by inserting the original GAME
          media into the newer console, while Nintendo's Wii could play
          GameCube titles as well in the same manner.
--
  GAME media

   [220px-NES-Cartridge.jpg] An unlabeled GAME cartridge for the Nintendo
   Entertainment System

   Early arcade GAME, home consoles, and handheld GAME were dedicated
   hardware units with the GAME's logic built into the electronic
   componentry of the hardware. Since then, most video GAME platforms are
   considered programmable, having means to read and play multiple GAME
   distributed on different types of media or formats. Physical formats
   include ROM cartridges, magnetic storage including magnetic-tape data
--
   Internet or other communication methods as well as cloud gaming
   alleviate the need for any physical media. In some cases, the media
   serves as the direct read-only memory for the GAME, or it may be the
   form of installation media that is used to write the main assets to the
   player's platform's local storage for faster loading periods and later
--
   or as downloadable content nominally available via digital
   distribution. These can be offered freely or can be used to monetize a
   GAME following its initial release. Several GAME offer players the
   ability to create user-generated content to share with others to play.
   Other GAME, mostly those on personal computers, can be extended with
   user-created modifications or mods that alter or add onto the GAME;
   these often are unofficial and were developed by players from reverse
   engineering of the GAME, but other GAME provide official support for
   modding the GAME.^[43]

  Input device
--

   [220px-Nintendo-Super-NES-Controller.jpg] A North American Super NES
   GAME controller from the early 1990s

   Video GAME can use several types of input devices to translate human
   actions to a GAME. Most common are the use of GAME controllers like
   gamepads and joysticks for most consoles, and as accessories for
   personal computer systems along keyboard and mouse controls. Common
   controls on the most recent controllers include face buttons, shoulder
--
   vendors.^[44] Similar control sets are built into handheld consoles and
   onto arcade cabinets. Newer technology improvements have incorporated
   additional technology into the controller or the GAME platform, such as
   touchscreens and motion detection sensors that give more options for
   how the player interacts with the GAME. Specialized controllers may be
   used for certain genres of GAME, including racing wheels, light guns
   and dance pads. Digital cameras and motion detection can capture
   movements of the player as input into the GAME, which can, in some
   cases, effectively eliminate the control, and on other systems such as
   virtual reality, are used to enhance immersion into the GAME.

  Display and output

   Main article: Video GAME graphics

   [170px-GAME-Boy-FL.jpg] Handheld units, like the GAME Boy, include
   built-in output screens and sound speakers.

   By definition, all video GAME are intended to output graphics to an
   external video display, such as cathode-ray tube televisions, newer
   liquid-crystal display (LCD) televisions and built-in screens,
   projectors or computer monitors, depending on the type of platform the
   GAME is played on. Features such as color depth, refresh rate, frame
   rate, and screen resolution are a combination of the limitations of the
   GAME platform and display device and the program efficiency of the GAME
   itself. The GAME's output can range from fixed displays using LED or
   LCD elements, text-based GAME, two-dimensional and three-dimensional
   graphics, and augmented reality displays.

   The GAME's graphics are often accompanied by sound produced by internal
   speakers on the GAME platform or external speakers attached to the
   platform, as directed by the GAME's programming. This often will
   include sound effects tied to the player's actions to provide audio
   feedback, as well as background music for the GAME.

   Some platforms support additional feedback mechanics to the player that
   a GAME can take advantage of. This is most commonly haptic technology
   built into the GAME controller, such as causing the controller to shake
   in the player's hands to simulate a shaking earthquake occurring in
   GAME.

Classifications

   Video GAME are frequently classified by a number of factors related to
   how one plays them.

  Genre

   Main article: Video GAME genre

   See also: Gameplay

   Dustforce is representative of the platform GAME genre as its gameplay
   involves jumping between platforms.

   A video GAME, like most other forms of media, may be categorized into
   genres. However, unlike film or television which use visual or
   narrative elements, video GAME are generally categorized into genres
   based on their gameplay interaction, since this is the primary means
   which one interacts with a video GAME.^[45]^[46]^[47] The narrative
   setting does not impact gameplay; a shooter GAME is still a shooter
   GAME, regardless of whether it takes place in a fantasy world or in
   outer space.^[48]^[49] An exception is the horror GAME genre, used for
   GAME that are based on narrative elements of horror fiction, the
   supernatural, and psychological horror.^[50]

   Genre names are normally self-describing in terms of the type of
   gameplay, such as action GAME, role playing GAME, or shoot 'em up,
   though some genres have derivations from influential works that have
   defined that genre, such as roguelikes from Rogue,^[51] Grand Theft
   Auto clones from Grand Theft Auto III,^[52] and battle royale GAME
   from the film Battle Royale.^[53] The names may shift over time as
   players, developers and the media come up with new terms; for example,
   first-person shooters were originally called "Doom clones" based on the
   1993 GAME.^[54] A hierarchy of GAME genres exist, with top-level genres
   like "shooter GAME" and "action GAME" that broadly capture the GAME's
   main gameplay style, and several subgenres of specific implementation,
   such as within the shooter GAME first-person shooter and third-person
   shooter. Some cross-genre types also exist that fall until multiple
   top-level genres such as action-adventure GAME.

  Mode
--
   DreamHack with hundreds of players

   A video GAME's mode describes how many players can use the GAME at the
   same type. This is primarily distinguished by single-player video GAME
   and multiplayer video GAME. Within the latter category, multiplayer
   GAME can be played in a variety of ways, including locally at the same
   device, on separate devices connected through a local network such as
   LAN parties, or online via separate Internet connections. Most
   multiplayer GAME are based on competitive gameplay, but many offer
   cooperative and team-based options as well as asymmetric gameplay.
   Online GAME use server structures that can also enable massively
   multiplayer online GAME (MMOs) to support hundreds of players at the
   same time.

   A small number of video GAME are zero-player GAME, in which the
   player has very limited interaction with the GAME itself. These are
   most commonly simulation GAME where the player may establish a
   starting state and then let the GAME proceed on its own, watching the
   results as a passive observer, such as with many computerized
   simulations of Conway's GAME of Life.^[55]
--
  Types

   Most video GAME are intended for entertainment purposes.^[36]
   Different GAME types include:

   Core GAME
          Core or hard-core GAME refer to the typical perception of video
          GAME, developed for entertainment purposes. These GAME
          typically require a fair amount of time to learn and master, in
          contrast to casual GAME, and thus are most appealing to gamers
          rather than a broader audience. Most of the AAA video GAME
          industry is based around the delivery of core GAME.^[56]

   Casual GAME
          In contrast to core GAME, casual GAME are designed for ease of
          accessibility, simple to understand gameplay and quick to grasp
          rule sets, and aimed at mass market audience. They frequently
          support the ability to jump in and out of play on demand, such
          as during commuting or lunch breaks. Numerous browser and mobile
          GAME fall into the casual GAME area, and casual GAME often are
          from genres with low intensity GAME elements such as match
          three, hidden object, time management, and puzzle GAME.^[57]
          Causal GAME frequently use social-network GAME mechanics, where
          players can enlist the help of friends on their social media
          networks for extra turns or moves each day.^[58] Popular casual
          GAME include Tetris and Candy Crush Saga. More recent, starting
          in the late 2010s, are hyper-casual GAME which use even more
          simplistic rules for short but infinitely replayable GAME, such
          as Flappy Bird.^[59]

   Educational GAME
          Education software has been used in homes and classrooms to help
          teach children and students, and video GAME have been similarly
          adapted for these reasons, all designed to provide a form of
          interactivity and entertainment tied to GAME design elements.
          There are a variety of differences in their designs and how they
          educate the user. These are broadly split between edutainment
          GAME that tend to focus on the entertainment value and rote
          learning but are unlikely to engage in critical thinking, and
          educational video GAME that are geared towards problem solving
          through motivation and positive reinforcement while downplaying
          the entertainment value.^[60] Examples of educational GAME
          include The Oregon Trail and the Carmen Sandiego series.
          Further, GAME not initially developed for educational purposes
          have found their way into the classroom after release, such as
          that feature open worlds or virtual sandboxes like
          Minecraft,^[61] or offer critical thinking skills through puzzle
          video GAME like SpaceChem.^[62]

   Serious GAME
          [220px-AFA_Beech_in_Flight_Simulator.jpg] Microsoft Flight
          Simulator is an example of a simulation GAME. Further extending
          from educational GAME, serious GAME are those where the
          entertainment factor may be augmented, overshadowed, or even
          eliminated by other purposes for the GAME. GAME design is used
          to reinforce the non-entertainment purpose of the GAME, such as
          using video GAME technology for the GAME's interactive world, or
          gamification for reinforcement training. Educational GAME are a
          form of serious GAME, but other types of GAME include fitness
          GAME that incorporate significant physical exercise to help
          keep the player fit (such as Wii Fit), simulator GAME that
          resemble fight simulators to pilot aircraft (such as Microsoft
          Flight Simulator), adverGAME that are built around the
          advertising of a product (such as Pepsiman), and newsGAME aimed
          at conveying a specific advocacy message (such as
          NarcoGuerra).^[63]^[64]

   Art GAME
          Although video GAME have been considered an art form on their
          own, GAME may be developed to try to purposely communicate a
          story or message, using the medium as a work of art. These art
          or arthouse GAME are designed to generate emotion and empathy
          from the player by challenging societal norms and offering
          critique through the interactivity of the video GAME medium.
          They may not have any type of win condition and are designed to
          let the player explore through the GAME world and scenarios.
          Most art GAME are indie GAME in nature, designed based on
          personal experiences or stories through a single developer or
          small team. Examples of art GAME include Passage, Flower, and
          That Dragon, Cancer.^[65]^[66]^[67]

  Content rating

   Main article: Video GAME content rating system

   [ESRBrating.PNG] A typical ESRB rating label, listing the rating and
   specific content descriptors for Rabbids Go Home

   Video GAME can be subject to national and international content rating
   requirements. Like with film content ratings, video GAME ratings typing
   identify the target age group that the national or regional ratings
   board believes is appropriate for the player, ranging from all-ages, to
   a teenager-or-older, to mature, to the infrequent adult-only GAME.
   Most content review is based on the level of violence, both in the type
   of violence and how graphic it may be represented, and sexual content,
--
   The regulations vary from country to country but generally are
   voluntary systems upheld by vendor practices, with penalty and fines
   issued by the ratings body on the video GAME publisher for misuse of
   the ratings. Among the major content rating systems include:
     * Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) that oversees GAME
       released in the United States. ESRB ratings are voluntary and rated
       along a E (Everyone), E10+ (Everyone 10 and older), T (Teen), M
       (Mature), and AO (Adults Only). Attempts to mandate video GAME
       ratings in the U.S. subsequently led to the landmark Supreme Court
       case, Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association in 2011 which
       ruled video GAME were a protected form of art, a key victory for
       the video GAME industry.^[68]
     * Pan European GAME Information (PEGI) covering the United Kingdom,
       most of the European Union and other European countries, replacing
--
       based on minimum recommended ages, which include 3+, 8+, 12+, 16+,
       and 18+.
     * Australian Classification Board (ACB) oversees the ratings of GAME
       and other works in Australia, using ratings of G (General), PG
       (Parental Guidance), M (Mature), MA15+ (Mature Accompanied), R18+
       (Restricted), and X (Restricted for pornographic material). ACB can
       also deny to give a rating to GAME (RC - Refused Classification).
       The ACB's ratings are enforceable by law, and importantly, GAME
       cannot be imported or purchased digitally in Australia if they have
       failed to gain a rating or were given the RC rating, leading to a
       number of notable banned GAME.
     * Computer Entertainment Rating Organization (CERO) rates GAME for
       Japan. Their ratings include A (all ages), B (12 and older), C (15
       and over), D (17 and over), and Z (18 and over).
--
   Unterhaltungssoftware Selbstkontrolle (Entertainment Software
   Self-Regulation) would refuse to classify, and thus allow sale, of any
   GAME depicting Nazi imagery, and thus often requiring developers to
   replace such imagery with fictional ones. This ruling was relaxed in
   2018 to allow for such imagery for "social adequacy" purposes that
   applied to other works of art.^[69] China's video GAME segment is
   mostly isolated from the rest of the world due to the government's
   censorship, and all GAME published there must adhere to strict
   government review, disallowing content such as smearing the image of
   the Chinese Communist Party. Foreign GAME published in China often
   require modification by developers and publishers to meet these
   requirements.^[70]
--
Development

   Main article: Video GAME development

   See also: Video GAME industry practices

   [220px-Virtual-camera-system.png] Developers use various tools to
   create video GAME. Here an editor is fine-tuning the virtual camera
   system.

   Video GAME development and authorship, much like any other form of
   entertainment, is frequently a cross-disciplinary field. Video GAME
   developers, as employees within this industry are commonly referred,
   primarily include programmers and graphic designers. Over the years
--
   see prevalent in the creation of any movie or television program,
   including sound designers, musicians, and other technicians; as well as
   skills that are specific to video GAME, such as the GAME designer. All
   of these are managed by producers.

   In the early days of the industry, it was more common for a single
   person to manage all of the roles needed to create a video GAME. As
   platforms have become more complex and powerful in the type of material
   they can present, larger teams have been needed to generate all of the
   art, programming, cinematography, and more. This is not to say that the
   age of the "one-man shop" is gone, as this is still sometimes found in
   the casual gaming and handheld markets,^[71] where smaller GAME are
   prevalent due to technical limitations such as limited RAM or lack of
   dedicated 3D graphics rendering capabilities on the target platform
   (e.g., some PDAs).^[72]

   Video GAME are programmed like any other piece of computer software.
   Prior to the mid-1970s, arcade and home consoles were programmed by
   assembling discrete electro-mechanical components on circuit boards,
   which limited GAME to relatively simple logic. By 1975, low-cost
   microprocessors were available at volume to be used for video GAME
   hardware, which allowed GAME developers to program more detailed GAME,
   widening the scope of what was possible.^[73]^[74] Ongoing improvements
   in computer hardware technology has expanded what has become possible
   to create in video GAME, coupled with convergence of common hardware
   between console, computer, and arcade platforms to simplify the
   development process.^[75] Today, GAME developers have a number of
   commercial and open source tools available for use to make GAME, often
   which are across multiple platforms to support portability, or may
   still opt to create their own for more specialized features and direct
   control of the GAME. Today, many GAME are built around a GAME engine
   that handles the bulk of the GAME's logic, gameplay, and rendering.
   These engines can be augmented with specialized engines for specific
   features, such as a physics engine that simulates the physics of
   objects in real-time. A variety of middleware exists to help developers
   to access other features, such as for playback of videos within GAME,
   network-oriented code for GAME that communicate via online services,
   matchmaking for online GAME, and similar features. These features can
   be used from a developers' programming language of choice, or they may
   opt to also use GAME development kits that minimize the amount of
   direct programming they have to do but can also limit the amount of
   customization they can add into a GAME. Like all software, video GAME
   usually undergo quality testing before release to assure there are no
   bugs or glitches in the product, though frequently developers will
--
   problem of cost has increased. Development studios need the best
   talent, while publishers reduce costs to maintain profitability on
   their investment. Typically, a video GAME console development team
   ranges from 5 to 50 people, and some exceed 100. In May 2009,
   Assassin's Creed II was reported to have a development staff of
   450.^[76] The growth of team size combined with greater pressure to get
   completed projects into the market to begin recouping production costs
   has led to a greater occurrence of missed deadlines, rushed GAME and
   the release of unfinished products.^[77]

   While amateur and hobbyist GAME programming had existed since the late
   1970s with the introduction of home computers, a newer trend since the
   mid-2000s is indie GAME development. Indie GAME are made by small
   teams outside any direct publisher control, their GAME being smaller
   in scope than those from the larger "AAA" GAME studios, and are often
   experiment in gameplay and art style. Indie GAME development are aided
   by larger availability of digital distribution, including the newer
   mobile gaming marker, and readily-available and low-cost development
--

   Although departments of computer science have been studying the
   technical aspects of video GAME for years, theories that examine GAME
   as an artistic medium are a relatively recent development in the
   humanities. The two most visible schools in this emerging field are
   ludology and narratology. Narrativists approach video GAME in the
   context of what Janet Murray calls "Cyberdrama". That is to say, their
   major concern is with video GAME as a storytelling medium, one that
   arises out of interactive fiction. Murray puts video GAME in the
   context of the Holodeck, a fictional piece of technology from Star
   Trek, arguing for the video GAME as a medium in which the player is
   allowed to become another person, and to act out in another world.^[79]
   This image of video GAME received early widespread popular support,
   and forms the basis of films such as Tron, eXistenZ and The Last
   Starfighter.

   Ludologists break sharply and radically from this idea. They argue that
   a video GAME is first and foremost a GAME, which must be understood in
   terms of its rules, interface, and the concept of play that it deploys.
   Espen J. Aarseth argues that, although GAME certainly have plots,
   characters, and aspects of traditional narratives, these aspects are
   incidental to gameplay. For example, Aarseth is critical of the
   widespread attention that narrativists have given to the heroine of the
   GAME Tomb Raider, saying that "the dimensions of Lara Croft's body,
   already analyzed to death by film theorists, are irrelevant to me as a
   player, because a different-looking body would not make me play
--
   it and past it."^[80] Simply put, ludologists reject traditional
   theories of art because they claim that the artistic and socially
   relevant qualities of a video GAME are primarily determined by the
   underlying set of rules, demands, and expectations imposed on the
   player.

   While many GAME rely on emergent principles, video GAME commonly
   present simulated story worlds where emergent behavior occurs within
   the context of the GAME. The term "emergent narrative" has been used to
   describe how, in a simulated environment, storyline can be created
   simply by "what happens to the player."^[81] However, emergent behavior
   is not limited to sophisticated GAME. In general, any place where
   event-driven instructions occur for AI in a GAME, emergent behavior
   will exist. For instance, take a racing GAME in which cars are
   programmed to avoid crashing, and they encounter an obstacle in the
   track: the cars might then maneuver to avoid the obstacle causing the
   cars behind them to slow or maneuver to accommodate the cars in front
   of them and the obstacle. The programmer never wrote code to
   specifically create a traffic jam, yet one now exists in the GAME.

  Intellectual property for video GAME

   Main articles: Intellectual property protection of video GAME and
   Video GAME clone

   Most commonly, video GAME are protected by copyright, though both
   patents and trademarks have been used as well.

   Though local copyright regulations vary to the degree of protection,
   video GAME qualify as copyrighted visual-audio works, and enjoy
   cross-country protection under the Berne Convention.^[82] This
   typically only applies to the underlying code, as well as to the
   artistic aspects of the GAME such as its writing, art assets, and
   music. Gameplay itself is generally not considered copyrightable; in
   the United States among other countries, video GAME are considered to
   fall into the idea-expression distinction in that it is how the GAME is
   presented and expressed to the player that can be copyrighted, but not
   the underlying principles of the GAME.^[83]

   Because gameplay is normally ineligible for copyright, gameplay ideas
   in popular GAME are often replicated and built upon in other GAME. At
   times, this repurposing of gameplay can be seen as beneficial and a
   fundamental part of how the industry has grown by building on the ideas
   of others.^[84]^[85] For example Doom (1993) and Grand Theft Auto III
   (2001) introduced gameplay that created popular new GAME genres, the
   first-person shooter and the Grand Theft Auto clone, respectively, in
   the few years after their release.^[86]^[87] However, at times and more
   frequently at the onset of the industry, developers would intentionally
   create video GAME clones of successful GAME and GAME hardware with few
   changes, which led to the flooded arcade and dedicated home console
   market around 1978.^[84]^[88]^[85] Cloning is also a major issue with
--
   had enabled China to support a large grey market of cloned hardware and
   software systems.^[89] The industry remains challenged to distinguish
   between creating new GAME based on refinements of past successful
   GAME to create a new type of gameplay, and intentionally creating a
   clone of a GAME that may simply swap out art assets.^[90]

Industry

   Main article: Video GAME industry

   [220px-Los_Angeles_-7_%287356846176%29.jpg] E3 is one of the typical
   trade show events of the video GAME industry.

  History

   The early history of the video GAME industry, following the first GAME
   hardware releases and through 1983, had little structure. Video GAME
   quickly took off during the golden age of arcade video GAME from the
   late 1970s to early 1980s, but the newfound industry was mainly
   composed of GAME developers with little business experience. This led
   to numerous companies forming simply to create clones of popular GAME
   to try to capitalize on the market.^[91] Due to loss of publishing
   control and oversaturation of the market, the North American home video
   GAME market crashed in 1983, dropping from revenues of around $3
   billion in 1983 to $100 million by 1985. Many of the North American
   companies created in the prior years closed down. Japan's growing GAME
   industry was briefly shocked by this crash but had sufficient longevity
   to withstand the short-term effects, and Nintendo helped to revitalize
   the industry with the release of the Nintendo Entertainment System in
   North America in 1985.^[91] Along with it, Nintendo established a
   number of core industrial practices to prevent unlicensed GAME
   development and control GAME distribution on their platform, methods
   that continue to be used by console manufacturers today.^[91]

--
   forming around the concept of publisher-developer dichotomies, and by
   the 2000s, leading to the industry centralizing around low-risk,
   triple-A GAME and studios with large development budgets of at least
   $10 million or more.^[92] The advent of the Internet brought digital
   distribution as a viable means to distribute GAME, and contributed to
   the growth of more riskier, experimental independent GAME development
   as an alternative to triple-A GAME in the late 2000s and which has
   continued to grow as a significant portion of the video GAME
   industry.^[93]^[78]

  Industry roles

   Video GAME have a large network effect that draw on many different
   sectors that tie into the larger video GAME industry. While video GAME
   developers are a significant portion of the industry, other key
   participants in the market include:^[94]
     * Publishers: Companies generally that oversee bringing the GAME from
       the developer to market. This often includes performing the
       marketing, public relations, and advertising of the GAME.
       Publishers frequently pay the developers ahead of time to make
       their GAME and will be involved in critical decisions about the
       direction of the GAME's progress, and then pay the developers
       additional royalties or bonuses based on sales performances. Other
       smaller, boutique publishers may simply offer to perform the
       publishing of a GAME for a small fee and a portion of the sales,
       and otherwise leave the developer with the creative freedom to
       proceed. A range of other publisher-developer relationships exist
       between these points.
     * Distributors: Publishers often are able to produce their own GAME
       media and take the role of distributor, but there are also
       third-party distributors that can mass-produce GAME media and
       distribute to retailers. Digital storefronts like Steam and the iOS
       App Store also serve as distributors and retailers in the digital
--
     * Retailers: Physical storefronts, which include large online
       retailers, department and electronic stores, and specialty video
       GAME stores, sell GAME, consoles, and other accessories to
       consumers. This has also including a trade-in market in certain
       regions, allowing players to turn in used GAME for partial refunds
       or credit towards other GAME. However, with the uprising of
       digital marketplaces and e-commerce revolution, retailers have been
       performing worse than in the past.
     * Hardware manufacturers: The video GAME console manufacturers
       produce console hardware, often through a value chain system that
       include numerous component suppliers and contract manufacturer that
       assemble the consoles. Further, these console manufacturers
       typically require a license to develop for their platform and may
       control the production of some GAME, such as Nintendo does with
       the use of GAME cartridges for its systems. In exchange, the
       manufacturers may help promote GAME for their system and may seek
       console exclusivity for certain GAME. For GAME on personal
       computers, a number of manufacturers are devoted to
       high-performance "gaming computer" hardware, particularly in the
--
       post-sale, such as additional controllers for console or carrying
       cases and gear for handheld devices.
     * Journalism: While journalism around video GAME used to be
       primarily print-based, and focused more on post-release reviews and
       gameplay strategy, the Internet has brought a more proactive press
       that use web journalism, covering GAME in the months prior to
       release as well as beyond, helping to build excitement for GAME
       ahead of release.
     * Influencers: With the rising importance of social media, video GAME
       companies have found that the opinions of influencers using
       streaming media to play through their GAME has had a significant
       impact on GAME sales, and have turned to use influencers alongside
       traditional journalism as a means to build up attention to their
       GAME before release.
     * Esports: Esports is a major function of several multiplayer GAME
       with numerous professional leagues established since the 2000s,
       with large viewership numbers, particularly out of southeast Asia
--
       conventions for the industry such as E3.
     * Gamers: Proactive hobbyists who are players and consumers of video
       GAME. While their representation in the industry is primarily seen
       through GAME sales, many companies follow gamers' comments on
       social media or on user reviews and engage with them to work to
       improve their products in addition to other feedback from other
--
       also impact parts of the market; while once dominated by younger
       men, the market shifted in the mid-2010s towards women and older
       players who generally preferred mobile and causal GAME, leading to
       further growth in those sectors.^[95]

  Major regional markets

--
   The industry itself grew out from both the United States and Japan in
   the 1970s and 1980s before having a larger worldwide contribution.
   Today, the video GAME industry is predominantly led by major companies
   in North America (primarily the United States and Canada), Europe, and
   southeast Asia including Japan, South Korea, and China. Hardware
   production remains an area dominated by Asian companies either directly
   involved in hardware design or part of the production process, but
   digital distribution and indie GAME development of the late 2000s has
   allowed GAME developers to flourish nearly anywhere and diversify the
   field.^[96]

  GAME sales

   See also: List of best-selling video GAME and Golden age of arcade
   video GAME

   [220px-Videogameretaildisplay.jpg] A retail display in Switzerland with
   a large selection of GAME for platforms popular in the early 2000s

   According to the market research firm Newzoo, the global video GAME
   industry drew estimated revenues of over $159 billion in 2020. Mobile
   GAME accounted for the bulk of this, with a 48% share of the market,
   followed by console GAME at 28% and personal computer GAME at
   23%.^[1]

   Sales of different types of GAME vary widely between countries due to
   local preferences. Japanese consumers tend to purchase much more
   handheld GAME than console GAME and especially PC GAME, with a
   strong preference for GAME catering to local tastes.^[97]^[98] Another
   key difference is that, though having declined in the West, arcade
   GAME remain an important sector of the Japanese gaming industry.^[99]
   In South Korea, computer GAME are generally preferred over console
   GAME, especially MMORPG GAME and real-time strategy GAME. Computer
   GAME are also popular in China.^[100]

Effects on society
--
  Culture

   Main articles: Video GAME culture and Gamer

   [220px-The_Art_of_Video_GAME_2012_%286848246182%29.jpg] The Art of
   Video GAME exhibit at the Smithsonian American Art Museum in 2012

   Video GAME culture is a worldwide new media subculture formed around
   video GAME and GAME playing. As computer and video GAME have
   increased in popularity over time, they have had a significant
   influence on popular culture. Video GAME culture has also evolved over
   time hand in hand with internet culture as well as the increasing
   popularity of mobile GAME. Many people who play video GAME identify
   as gamers, which can mean anything from someone who enjoys GAME to
   someone who is passionate about it. As video GAME become more social
   with multiplayer and online capability, gamers find themselves in
   growing social networks. Gaming can both be entertainment as well as
   competition, as a new trend known as electronic sports is becoming more
   widely accepted. In the 2010s, video GAME and discussions of video
   GAME trends and topics can be seen in social media, politics,
   television, film and music. The COVID-19 pandemic during 2020-2021 gave
   further visibility to video GAME as a pastime to enjoy with friends
   and family online as a means of social distancing.^[101]^[102]

   Main article: Video GAME as an art form

   Since the mid-2000s there has been debate whether video GAME qualify
   as art, primarily as the form's interactivity interfered with the
   artistic intent of the work and that they are designed for commercial
--
   Ebert published an essay "Video GAME can never be art",^[103] which
   challenged the industry to prove him and other critics wrong.^[104] The
   view that video GAME were an art form was cemented in 2011 when the
   U.S. Supreme Court ruled in the landmark case Brown v. Entertainment
   Merchants Association that video GAME were a protected form of speech
   with artistic merit.^[105] Since then, video GAME developers have come
   to use the form more for artistic expression, including the development
   of art GAME,^[106] and the cultural heritage of video GAME as works
   of arts, beyond their technical capabilities, have been part of major
   museum exhibits, including The Art of Video GAME at the Smithsonian
   American Art Museum and toured at other museums from 2012 to 2016.

   and the video GAME industry

   Video GAME will inspire sequels and other video GAME within the same
   franchise, but also have influenced works outside of the video GAME
   medium. Numerous television shows (both animated and live-action),
   films, comics and novels have been created based on existing video GAME
   franchises. Because video GAME are an interactive medium there has
   been trouble in converting them to these passive forms of media, and
   typically such works have been critically panned or treated as
   children's media. For example, until 2019, no video GAME film had ever
   been received a "Fresh" rating on Rotten Tomatoes, but the releases of
   Detective Pikachu (2019) and Sonic the Hedgehog (2020), both receiving
   "Fresh" ratings, shows signs of the film industry having found an
   approach to adapt video GAME for the large screen.^[107]^[108] That
   said, some early video GAME-based films have been highly successful at
   the box office, such as 1995's Mortal Kombat and 2001's Lara Croft:
   Tomb Raider.^[109]

   More recently since the 2000s, there has also become a larger
   appreciation of video GAME music, which ranges from chiptunes composed
   for limited sound-output devices on early computers and consoles, to
   fully-scored compositions for most modern GAME. Such music has
   frequently served as a platform for covers and remixes, and concerts
   featuring video GAME soundtracks performed by bands or orchestras, such
   as Video GAME Live, have also become popular.^[109] Video GAME also
   frequently incorporate licensed music, particularly in the area of
   rhythm GAME, furthering the depth of which video GAME and music can
   work together.^[109]

   Further, video GAME can serve as a virtual environment under full
   control of a producer to create new works. With the capability to
   render 3D actors and settings in real-time, a new type of work
   machinima (short for "machine cinema") grew out from using video GAME
   engines to craft narratives.^[110] As video GAME engines gain higher
   fidelity, they have also become part of the tools used in more
   traditional filmmaking. Unreal Engine has been used as a backbone by
--
   The Mandalorian.^[111]

   Separately, video GAME are also frequently used as part of the
   promotion and marketing for other media, such as for films, anime, and
   comics. However, these licensed GAME in the 1990s and 2000s often had
   a reputation for poor quality, developed without any input from the
   intellectual property rights owners, and several of them are considered
   among lists of GAME with notably negative reception, such as Superman
   64. More recently, with these licensed GAME being developed by
   triple-A studios or through studios directly connected to the licensed
   property owner, there has been a significant improvement in the quality
   of these GAME, with an early trendsetting example of Batman: Arkham
   Asylum.^[112]

--
   message)

   Main articles: Video GAME in education and Video GAME behavioral
   effects

   Besides their entertainment value, appropriately-designed video GAME
   have been seen to provide value in education across several ages and
   comprehension levels. Learning principles found in video GAME have
   been identified as possible techniques with which to reform the U.S.
   education system.^[113] It has been noticed that gamers adopt an
   attitude while playing that is of such high concentration, they do not
   realize they are learning, and that if the same attitude could be
   adopted at school, education would enjoy significant
   benefits.^[114]^[dubious - discuss] Students are found to be "learning
   by doing" while playing video GAME while fostering creative
   thinking.^[115]

   Video GAME are also believed to be beneficial to the mind and body. It
   has been shown that action video GAME players have better hand-eye
   coordination and visuo-motor skills, such as their resistance to
   distraction, their sensitivity to information in the peripheral vision
   and their ability to count briefly presented objects, than
   nonplayers.^[116] Researchers found that such enhanced abilities could
   be acquired by training with action GAME, involving challenges that
   switch attention between different locations, but not with GAME
   requiring concentration on single objects.^[citation needed] A 2018
   systematic review found evidence that video gaming training had
   positive effects on cognitive and emotional skills in the adult
   population, especially with young adults.^[117] A 2019 systematic
   review also added support for the claim that video GAME are beneficial
   to the brain, although the beneficial effects of video gaming on the
   brain differed by video GAME types.^[118]

   Organisers of video gaming events, such as the organisers of the D-Lux
   video GAME festival in Dumfries, Scotland, have emphasised the positive
   aspects video GAME can have on mental health. Organisers, mental
   health workers and mental health nurses at the event emphasised the
   relationships and friendships that can be built around video GAME and
   how playing GAME can help people learn about others as a precursor to
   discussing the person's mental health.^[119] A study in 2020 from
   Oxford University also suggested that playing video GAME can be a
   benefit to a person's mental health. The report of 3,274 gamers, all
   over the age of 18, focused on the GAME Animal Crossing: New Horizons
   and Plants vs Zombies: Battle for Neighborville and used actual
   play-time data. The report found that those that played more GAME
   tended to report greater "wellbeing".^[120]^[121] Also in 2020,
   computer science professor Regan Mandryk of the University of
   Saskatchewan said her research also showed that video GAME can have
   health benefits such as reducing stress and improving mental health.
   The university's research studied all age groups - "from pre-literate
--
   a main focus on 18 to 55-year-olds.^[122]

   A study of gamers attitudes towards gaming which was reported about in
   2018 found that millennials use video GAME as a key strategy for
   coping with stress. In the study of 1,000 gamers, 55% said that it
   "helps them to unwind and relieve stress ... and half said they see the
   value in gaming as a method of escapism to help them deal with daily
--
   improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this
   section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
--
   JSTOR (June 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

   Main article: Video GAME controversies


   [220px-Compulsion_loop_for_video_GAME.svg.png] The compulsion loop for
   video GAME is believed to trigger dopamine release that can encourage
   addictive behavior.

   Video GAME have caused controversy since the 1970s.^[124] Parents and
   children's advocates regularly raise concerns that violent video GAME
   can influence young players into performing those violent acts in real
   life, and events such as the Columbine High School massacre in 1999 in
   which some claimed the perpetrators specifically alluded to using video
   GAME to plot out their attack, raised further fears.^[citation needed]
   Medical experts and mental health professionals have also raised
   concerned that video GAME may be addictive, and the World Health
   Organization has included "gaming disorder" in the 11th revision of its
   International Statistical Classification of Diseases. Other health
   experts, including the American Psychiatric Association, have stated
   that there is insufficient evidence that video GAME can create violent
   tendencies or lead to addictive behavior,^[125] though agree that video
   GAME typically use a compulsion loop in their core design that can
   create dopamine that can help reinforce the desire to continue to play
   through that compulsion loop and potentially lead into violent or
   addictive behavior.^[126]^[127]^[128] Even with case law establishing
   that video GAME qualify as a protected art form, there has been
   pressure on the video GAME industry to keep their products in check to
   avoid over-excessive violence particularly for GAME aimed at younger
   children. The potential addictive behavior around GAME, coupled with
   increased used of post-sale monetization of video GAME, has also
   raised concern among parents, advocates, and government officials about
   gambling tendencies that may come from video GAME, such as controversy
   around the use of loot boxes in many high-profile GAME.

   Numerous other controversies around video GAME and its industry have
   arisen over the years, among the more notable incidents include the
   1993 United States Congressional hearings on violent GAME like Mortal
   Kombat which lead to the formation of the ESRB ratings system, numerous
   legal actions taken by attorney Jack Thompson over violent GAME such
   as Grand Theft Auto III and Manhunt from 2003 to 2007, the outrage over
   the "No Russian" level from Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 in 2009
--
   industry as a whole has also dealt with issues related to gender,
   racial, and LGBTQ+ discrimination and mischaracterization of these
   minority groups in video GAME. A further issue in the industry is
   related to working conditions, as development studios and publishers
   frequently use "crunch time", required extended working hours, in the
   weeks and months ahead of a GAME's release to assure on-time delivery.

Collecting and preservation

   Main articles: Video GAME collecting and Video GAME preservation

   See also: List of video GAME museums

   Players of video GAME often maintain collections of GAME. More
   recently there has been interest in retrogaming, focusing on GAME from
   the first decades. GAME in retail packaging in good shape have become
   collectors items for the early days of the industry, with some rare
   publications having gone for over US$100,000 as of 2020^[update].
   Separately, there is also concern about the preservation of video
   GAME, as both GAME media and the hardware to play them degrade over
   time. Further, many of the GAME developers and publishers from the
   first decades no longer exist, so records of their GAME have
   disappeared. Archivists and preservations have worked within the scope
   of copyright law to save these GAME as part of the cultural history of
   the industry.

   There are many video GAME museums around the world, including the
   National VideoGAME Museum in Frisco, Texas,^[129] which serves as the
   largest museum wholly dedicated to the display and preservation of the
   industry's most important artifacts.^[130] Europe hosts video GAME
   museums such as the Computer GAME Museum in Berlin^[131] and the
   Museum of Soviet Arcade Machines in Moscow and
   Saint-Petersburg.^[132]^[133] The Museum of Art and Digital
   Entertainment in Oakland, California is a dedicated video GAME museum
   focusing on playable exhibits of console and computer GAME.^[134] The
   Video GAME Museum of Rome is also dedicated to preserving video GAME
   and their history.^[135] The International Center for the History of
   Electronic GAME at The Strong in Rochester, New York contains one of
   the largest collections of electronic GAME and GAME-related historical
   materials in the world, including a 5,000-square-foot (460 m^2) exhibit
   which allows guests to play their way through the history of video
   GAME.^[136]^[137]^[138] The Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC
   has three video GAME on permanent display: Pac-Man, Dragon's Lair, and
   Pong.^[139]

   The Museum of Modern Art has added a total of 20 video GAME and one
   video GAME console to its permanent Architecture and Design Collection
   since 2012.^[140]^[141] In 2012, the Smithsonian American Art Museum
   ran an exhibition on "The Art of Video GAME".^[142] However, the
   reviews of the exhibit were mixed, including questioning whether video
   GAME belong in an art museum.^[143]^[144]

See also

     * Video GAME portal

     * Lists of video GAME
     * List of accessories to video GAME by system
     * Outline of video GAME

Notes

    1. ^ "VideoGAME" may also be used, though this is less frequent.

References
--
    4. ^ "Welcome to... NIMROD!". goodeveca.net. Archived from the
       original on 23 July 2011. Retrieved 24 October 2007.
    5. ^ Winter, David. "A.S.Douglas' 1952 Noughts and Crosses GAME".
       PONG-Story. Archived from the original on 23 December 2015.
       Retrieved 3 July 2009.
--
       Wolf, Mark (ed.). The Video GAME Explosion. Westport, CT: Greenwood
       Press. pp. 3-7. ISBN 978-0313338687.
   14. ^ ^a ^b ^c Wolf, Mark JP (2001). "Chapter 1: Video GAME as the
       medium". The Medium of the Video GAME. University of Texas Press.
       pp. 13-33. ISBN 9780292791503.
--
       OCLC 1088892215.
   18. ^ ^a ^b Picard, Martin (December 2013). "The Foundation of Geemu: A
       Brief History of Early Japanese video GAME". International Journal
       of Computer GAME Research. 13 (2). Archived from the original on 24
       June 2015. Retrieved 19 November 2016.
--
       (1971-2005)] (in Japanese). Japan: Amusement News Agency.
       ISBN 978-4990251215.
   20. ^ "A red-hot market for video GAME". BusinessWeek. 10 November
       1973. p. 212.
   21. ^ Edwards, Benj (12 December 2007). "VC&ampG Interview: Nolan
--
       (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 13 November 2022.
   24. ^ Spring, Dawn (3 April 2015). "Gaming history: computer and video
       GAME as historical scholarship". Rethinking History. 19 (2):
       207-221. doi:10.1080/13642529.2014.973714. ISSN 1364-2529.
       S2CID 144613217.
--
   27. ^ "Video GAME History". Smithsonian Institution. Archived from the
       original on 30 October 2018. Retrieved 13 November 2022.
   28. ^ Perron, Bernard (2013). "From gamers to players and gameplayers:
       The example of interactive movies". In Wolf, Mark JP; Perron,
       Bernard (eds.). The Video GAME Theory Reader. Routledge.
--
       from the original on 24 August 2020. Retrieved 12 September 2021.
   30. ^ Zimmermann, Felix; Huberts, Christian (2019). "From walking
       simulator to ambience action GAME". Press Start. 5 (2): 29-50.
   31. ^ ^a ^b Knoop, Joseph (10 September 2021). "Epic v Apple judge
       grapples with the big question: What is a videoGAME?". PC Gamer.
       Archived from the original on 15 September 2021. Retrieved 10
       September 2021.
--
       Bogdanowicz, Marc; Simon, Jean Paul (2010). Born digital/grown
       digital: Assessing the future competitiveness of the EU video GAME
       software industry (Report). JRC Scientific and Technical Reports.
   37. ^ "Platform". Dictionary.com. Archived from the original on 7
--
       McGraw-Hill. pp. C-198-C211. ISBN 978-0073381244.
   39. ^ Grabarczyk, Pawel; Aarseth, Espen (August 2019). "Port or
       conversion? An ontological framework for classifying GAME
       versions". Proceedings of the 2019 DiGRA International Conference:
       GAME, Play and the Emerging Ludo-Mix. DiGRA Conference 2019.
--
       unfit URL (link).
   44. ^ Thomas, David; Orland, Kyle; Steinberg, Scott (2007). The
       VideoGAME Style Guide and Reference Manual (PDF). Power Play
       Publishing. p. 21. ISBN 9781430313052. Archived (PDF) from the
       original on 11 July 2011. Retrieved 13 September 2021.
   45. ^ Apperley, Thomas H. (2006). "Genre and GAME studies" (PDF).
       Simulation &amp Gaming. 37 (1): 6-23. doi:10.1177/1046878105282278.
       S2CID 17373114. Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 October 2013.
--
       from the original on 22 April 2021. Retrieved 3 December 2014.
   53. ^ Zavarise, Giada (6 December 2018). "How Battle Royale went from a
       manga to a Fortnite GAME mode". Rock, Paper, Shotgun. Archived from
       the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 24 May 2020.
   54. ^ Arsenault, Dominic (2009). "Video GAME Genre, Evolution and
       Innovation". Eludamos. Journal for Computer GAME Culture. 3 (2):
       149-176. doi:10.7557/23.6003. S2CID 62171492.
   55. ^ Phillips, Tom (15 April 2020). "Video GAME pioneer John H. Conway
       dies aged 82". Eurogamer. Archived from the original on 27 April
       2020. Retrieved 19 March 2021.
   56. ^ Keogh, Brendan. "Between Triple-A, indie, casual, and DIY: Sites
       of tension in the videoGAME cultural industries." In The Routledge
       companion to the cultural industries, pp. 152-162. Routledge, 2015.
   57. ^ Boyes, Emma (18 February 2008). "GDC '08: Are casual GAME the
       future?". CNET. Archived from the original on 11 July 2011.
       Retrieved 7 May 2022.
--
       Social?". Gamasutra. Archived from the original on 12 August 2020.
       Retrieved 13 August 2020.
   59. ^ Bradshaw, Tim (20 August 2020). "How 'hyper-casual' GAME are
       winning the mobile market". Financial Times. Archived from the
       original on 13 January 2021. Retrieved 29 March 2021.
--
       Edutainment Applications. Springer. pp. 25-43.
       doi:10.1007/978-1-4471-2161-9_3. ISBN 978-1-4471-2160-2.
   65. ^ Schilling, Chris (23 July 2009). "Art house video GAME". The
       Daily Telegraph. London. Archived from the original on 10 January
       2022.
--
       December 2012. Retrieved 20 January 2013.
   69. ^ Handrahan, Matthew (9 August 2018). "Germany relaxes stance on
       Nazi symbols in video GAME". GAMEIndustry.biz. Archived from the
       original on 13 July 2021. Retrieved 9 August 2018.
   70. ^ Jones, Ali (11 December 2018). "Fortnite, PUBG, and Paladins have
--
       Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 11 December
       2018.
   71. ^ Parkin, Simon (3 August 2009). "The Edge of Reason?". Eurogamer.
       Archived from the original on 19 November 2009. Retrieved 16
       November 2009.
   72. ^ Reimer, Jeremy (8 November 2005). "Cross-platform GAME
       development and the next generation of consoles". Ars Technica.
       Archived from the original on 3 June 2020. Retrieved 3 June 2020.
   73. ^ Steve L. Kent (2001), The ultimate history of video GAME: from
--
       original on 1 November 2021. Retrieved 6 September 2019.
   85. ^ ^a ^b Webster, Andrew (6 December 2009). "Cloning or theft? Ars
       explores GAME design with Jenova Chen". Ars Technica. Archived from
       the original on 7 May 2021. Retrieved 20 October 2015.
   86. ^ Turner, Benjamin &amp Bowen, Kevin, Bringin' in the DOOM Clones,
--
       Retrieved 25 September 2019.
   90. ^ Parkin, Simon (23 December 2011). "Clone Wars: is plagiarism
       killing creativity in the GAME industry?". The Guardian. Archived
       from the original on 1 November 2021. Retrieved 7 August 2012.
   91. ^ ^a ^b ^c Ernkvist, Mirko (2008). "Down many times, but still
       playing the GAME: Creative destruction and industry crashes in the
       early video GAME industry 1971-1986". In Gratzer, Karl; Stiefel,
--
       Marketing. 27 (3): 141-157. doi:10.1016/j.intmar.2013.05.001.
   95. ^ Pulliam-Moore, Charles (21 August 2014). "Women significantly
       outnumber teenage boys in gamer demographics". PBS News Hour.
       Archived from the original on 12 March 2021. Retrieved 2 April
       2021.
--
       in Japan". Kotaku. Archived from the original on 23 June 2018.
       Retrieved 23 June 2018.
   98. ^ Byford, Sam (20 March 2014). "Japan used to rule video GAME, so
       what happened?". The Verge. Archived from the original on 23 June
       2018. Retrieved 23 June 2018.
--
       from the original on 8 April 2020. Retrieved 27 March 2020.
   102. ^ Howley, Daniel (18 March 2020). "The world is turning to video
       GAME amid coronavirus outbreak". Yahoo!. Archived from the
       original on 8 April 2020. Retrieved 27 March 2020.
   103. ^ Ebert, Roger (16 April 2010). "Video GAME can never be art".
       Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on 10 October 2011.
       Retrieved 31 August 2010.
--
       original on 14 September 2020. Retrieved 13 August 2020.
   105. ^ Kuchera, Ben (27 June 2011). "Supreme Court strikes down video
       GAME law on first amendment grounds". Ars Technica. Archived from
       the original on 15 September 2020. Retrieved 13 August 2020.
   106. ^ Steinberg, Scott (31 August 2010). "Who says video GAME aren't
       art?". CNN. Archived from the original on 3 September 2010.
       Retrieved 31 August 2010.
   107. ^ Whitten, Sarah (14 February 2020). "'Sonic the Hedgehog' is up
       against the stigma of video GAME flops at the box office". CNBC.
       Archived from the original on 26 July 2021. Retrieved 16 February
       2020.
--
       November 2020. Retrieved 1 August 2020.
   112. ^ Favis, Elise (5 March 2021). "From Star Wars to Marvel, licensed
       video GAME are becoming more ambitious. Here's why". The
       Washington Post. Archived from the original on 1 November 2021.
       Retrieved 26 July 2021.
--
       Inc. Archived from the original on 17 May 2008. Retrieved 4
       December 2007.
   115. ^ Glazer, S. (2006). "Video GAME". CQ Researcher. 16: 937-960.
       cqresrre2006111000.
   116. ^ Green, C. Shawn; Bavelier, Daphne (2003). "Action video GAME
       modifies visual selective attention". Nature. 423 (6939): 534-537.
       Bibcode:2003Natur.423..534G. doi:10.1038/nature01647.
--
       doi:10.3390/brainsci9100251. ISSN 2076-3425. PMC 6826942.
       PMID 31557907.
   119. ^ "D-Lux: The video GAME festival talking about mental health".
       BBC News. 11 February 2020. Archived from the original on 27 July
       2021. Retrieved 27 June 2021.
--
       health, find Oxford academics". The Guardian. Archived from the
       original on 23 June 2021. Retrieved 27 June 2021.
   121. ^ Chilton, Louis (16 November 2020). "Video GAME can provide
       benefits to mental health, suggests new Oxford University study".
       The Independent. Archived from the original on 2 November 2021.
       Retrieved 27 June 2021.
   122. ^ "U of S research finds video GAME can relieve stress, improve
       mental health". CBC News. 10 May 2020. Archived from the original
       on 4 August 2021. Retrieved 5 August 2021.
   123. ^ Bailey, Grant (9 February 2018). "Playing video GAME is a key
       strategy for coping with stress, study finds". The Independent.
       Archived from the original on 4 August 2021. Retrieved 5 August
--
       Archived from the original on 3 September 2020. Retrieved 3
       February 2020.
   129. ^ "National VideoGAME Museum". nvmusa.org. Archived from the
       original on 2 December 2017.
   130. ^ "National VideoGAME Museum opens in Frisco". Fox4news.com. 12
       April 2016. Archived from the original on 7 November 2017.
   131. ^ "Computerspielemuseum - Berlin". Computerspielemuseum.de.
--
       Electronic GAME. Archived from the original on 27 May 2013.
       Retrieved 26 May 2013.
   139. ^ "History of Computing: Video GAME - Golden Age". thocp.net.
       Archived from the original on 26 December 2011.
   140. ^ Anttonelli, Paola (29 November 2012). "Video GAME: 14 in the
--
   from the original on 2 July 2015. Retrieved 2 February 2011.

     Lieu, Tina (August 1997). "Where have all the PC GAME gone?".
   Computing Japan. Archived from the original on 12 January 1998.

--

     Williams, J.P.; Smith, J.H., eds. (2007). The players' realm: studies
   on the culture of video GAME and gaming. Jefferson, NC: McFarland &amp
   Co. How can video GAME boost your mental health? - Max Birk (Eindhoven
   University of Technology)
     * The Ultimate History of Video GAME: From Pong to Pokemon--The
--
External links

   Video GAME at Wikipedia's sister projects
     * Definitions from Wiktionary
     * Media from Commons
--

   Library resources about
   Video GAME
     __________________________________________________________________

--
     * Resources in other libraries

     * Video GAME bibliography by the French video GAME research
       association Ludoscience
     * The Virtual Museum of Computing (VMoC) (archived 10 October 2014)
--
     * e

   Video GAME concepts

   Glossary of video GAME terms

   Attributes
--
     * Loading screen
     * Replay value
     * Saved GAME
     * Scripted sequence
     * Password
--
     * Tank controls
     * Dialogue tree
     * Quest (video GAME)
     * GAME over

--
     * Multiplayer

   Competitive gameplay
     * Esports
     * Speedrun
--
     * e

   Video GAME genres

     * List of video GAME genres

   Action
--
     * Turn-based tactics
          + Artillery
     * WarGAME
          + Grand strategy

--
     * Music
          + Rhythm
     * Non-GAME
     * Party
     * Photography
--

   Themes
     * AdverGAME
     * Bishojo
     * Christian
--
     * Indie
          + Doujin soft
          + Fan GAME

   Technology
--
     * Casual
          + Hypercasual
     * Emergent gameplay
     * FMV
     * Kaizo
     * Masocore
     * Nonlinear gameplay
          + Open world
          + Sandbox
     * Side-scrolling
     * Twitch gameplay
     * Vertically scrolling

   Other
     * MiniGAME
     * Mixed reality GAME
          + Pervasive GAME
     * Online gambling
     * Toys-to-life
     * Video GAME clone
     * Video GAME modding
     * Virtual economy
     * Virtual world
--
     * e

   History of video GAME

     * v
--
     * e

   Chronology of video GAME
   Early history
     * 1947-1972
--
     * e

   Video GAME history by platform
   By platform
     * Early mainframe GAME
     * History of arcade video GAME
          + Golden age
          + Timeline
     * History of video GAME consoles
          + Video GAME crash of 1983
          + Console war
     * History of mobile GAME

   By console generation
--
     * e

   Video GAME genres
     * List of video GAME genres

   Action
--
     * Turn-based tactics
          + Artillery
     * WarGAME
          + Grand strategy

--
     * Music
          + Rhythm
     * Non-GAME
     * Party
     * Photography
--
   Related concepts
   Themes
     * AdverGAME
     * Bishojo
     * Christian
--
     * Indie
          + Doujin soft
          + Fan GAME

   Technology
--
     * Casual
          + Hypercasual
     * Emergent gameplay
     * FMV
     * Kaizo
     * Masocore
     * Nonlinear gameplay
          + Open world
          + Sandbox
     * Side-scrolling
     * Twitch gameplay
     * Vertically scrolling

   Other
     * MiniGAME
     * Mixed reality GAME
          + Pervasive GAME
     * Online gambling
     * Toys-to-life
     * Video GAME clone
     * Video GAME modding
     * Virtual economy
     * Virtual world
--
     * e

   Video GAME by country
   Africa
     * Ghana
--
     * Video

   List of GAME genres

   Authority control databases: National Edit this at Wikidata
--

   Retrieved from
   "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Video_GAME&ampoldid=1188389972
   "

   Categories:
     * Video GAME
     * GAME and sports introduced in 1947
     * Digital media
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-23">
<text>
   When planning a party, you need to have great food and great people.
   However, if you really want to make your party memorable for years to
   come, you'll need great party GAME. We sometimes overlook the pure joy
   that can come out of playing a great party GAME with a room full of
   friends, so we have a list of the 40 best party GAME.

Shop Trending Categories
--
Fleece Blankets

   Whether you are looking for a nice, low-activity party GAME for adults,
   a fun jigsaw puzzle, or a wet and wild birthday party GAME for kids,
   there are thousands of fun party activities to choose from. By the time
   it takes you to pick the best one, your guests may have already left.
   But not to worry, because we have put together a list of 40 of the best
   party GAME you can play to entertain your guests. Use the filters to
   choose the size of your party, activity level, and type of GAME you are
   looking to play. You can plan your whole party around a fun GAME, like
   a family reunion Tug of War. Then, tell everyone in your personalized
   party invitations to be sure they come prepared for some laughter and
--

   Break children into two equal teams. Two teammates sit back to back.
   When the GAME starts, the children lock arms and bend their knees. They
   then attempt to stand up without using their hands. Whichever team can
   stand up first wins.
--
Description

   Hand out ice cubes to everyone. When the GAME starts, players can try
   everything they can to melt the ice cube quicker than their opponents.
   They can rub it between their hands or on their shirt, or blow on it.
--
Example

   John is given an icecube. At the start of the GAME he blows hot air on
   the ice cube with his mouth to try to melt it. He does it faster than
   anyone else and wins.
--

   Set slices of cake on plates around the table in front of each child.
   When the GAME starts all children begin to eat the cake using only
   their mouth and keeping their hands behind their back.

Example

   Cameron has a piece of cake in front of him. The GAME starts and he
   works to eat the piece of cake using only his mouth. He is able to
   finish the entire piece before everyone else, so he wins.
--

   Divide children into two teams and assign each team a `mummy'. Give
   each team one roll of toilet paper. When the GAME starts, the kids must
   wrap the `mummy' in toilet paper. Whichever team finishes their roll of
   toilet paper first is the winner.
--
   Four kids are walking around a group of three chairs. When the music
   stops, Jim tries to get to a chair but Timmy, Alice, and Trevor sit in
   seats before he can get to one. Jim is out. The GAME continues until
   there is only one person left sitting.
   (BUTTON)
--
Description

   Assign one person to start the GAME. He/she writes a sentence that
   starts a story then passes the pen and paper to the next person in
   line. They add a sentence, continuing the story. This continues until
--
   impersonate the person to their left. Greg comes back and asks the
   first person what color hair they have, or what their age is. This
   helps Greg figure out the pattern and win the GAME.
   (BUTTON)

--
   Place a flag or marker in the middle of a thick rope. Then break up
   children into two equal teams and have them stand behind lines
   equidistant from the middle of the rope. When the GAME starts, each
   side pulls on the rope to try to get the flag over their line.

--
Description

   Everybody arranges in a circle. One player starts the GAME by
   whispering a phrase in the ear of the person on his/her left. This gets
   repeated all the way around the circle until it reaches the start.
--
Wrapping Up

   Whether you play these party GAME with your family or friends, these
   memories you create while playing these GAME will last a lifetime.
   Cherish all the moments you've spent together playing these GAME and
   make everlasting bonds with your loved ones. Be sure to capture these
   memories with pictures that you can add in a custom photo book and on
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-24">
<text>
   (BUTTON)

   Eight examples that explain all you need to know about serious GAME
   and GAME-based learning

Eight examples that explain all you need to know about serious GAME and
GAME-based learning

   Gamelearn Team 06 Mar / 2017

   At first sight, putting words like "serious" and "GAME" together might
   seem impossible, but it's not. In recent years, serious GAME have
   proven that it is possible to learn while you play. This teaching
   method is known as GAME-based learning, a trend that's expanding at the
   speed of light in primary schools, prestigious universities and large
   corporations. In this post, we're going to tell you all you need to
   know about serious GAME and learning through video GAME, including
   their main characteristics and benefits, and a few prime examples.

What is a serious GAME?

   Serious GAME are GAME whose primary objective is NOT fun or
   entertainment, rather learning or practicing a skill. Its use has
   grown, particularly in such sectors as education, defense, aeronautics,
--
Example 1: Dragon Box Elements

   In the field of education, one of the most simple (and effective) GAME
   is Dragon Box Elements. Here, players have to build an army, defeat the
   evil dragon Osgard and save Euclid's island. Designed for kids of nine
   years-of-age and upwards, to manage all that, they have to learn basic
   geometry and the theorems of Euclid himself. Dragon Box is a good
   example of a serious GAME: the students learn math while they have fun
   with a video GAME.

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/rm-6pDiSH44

What is GAME-based learning?

   The method that uses video GAME for learning purposes is known as
   GAME-based learning. The key lies in the fact that the content and the
   skills that you want to teach are not put across in a face-to-face
   class or in a book but rather through video GAME. Advocates of this
   innovative method of teaching think that video GAME can be a fun and
   effective tool at one and the same time, reducing the costs of training
   programs, increasing student motivation and facilitating direct
   practice. The star products of GAME-based learning are precisely,
   serious GAME.

Example 2: Pulse!!
--
   The healthcare sector has enthusiastically welcomed this innovative
   method of teaching. The expert in nursing, Claudia Johnston, based
   herself on first-person shooting video GAME (such as Quake or Duke to
   develop Pulse!!, which reproduces the conditions of an emergency ward
   in a hospital. Thanks to this video GAME, future nurses can practice
   all they have learnt in their theoretical classes and gain experience
   handling real situations. The goal of the players is to identify each
--
   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/NxwUMs4VCag

The 5 elements of a serious GAME

   It's no easy task to create a serious GAME: it requires a lot of
   talent, a lot of time and a lot of money. Although there is a huge
   variety of formats and objectives, most GAME-based learning systems
   tend to have five elements that ensure they work properly and are
   effective:

   1 - A story. Although it is by no means essential, most video GAME
   have a plot or a main story. It may be a prince risking life and limb
   to rescue a princess or a brave soldier who has to put paid to his
--
   patient's life. The more sophisticated the argument (and the
   characters), the easier it will be to motivate the players and for them
   to get into the GAME.

Example 3: Pacific

   The video GAME Pacific starts just there, with a story: while on a
   humanitarian mission, a team's plane crashes and they are trapped on an
   island in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. The player's objective is to
--
   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/YopbkCYSIEU

   2 - Gamification. The second fundamental element of any serious GAME
   are the GAME dynamics, which include the rankings, rewards, badges or
   points systems. This gamification tends to animate and motivate the
   players: we all love to get more coins, obtain more lives or pass
   through to the next level (remember Mario Bros?). Classifications or
   rankings are also very important in serious GAME: healthy competition
   with our classmates or work colleagues encourage us to try that bit
   harder and to do everything possible to beat our rivals.
--
   receive points, go up to the next level, lose lives or outdo their
   friends and relations. Each lesson they learn has a reward. Even though
   Duolingo is not strictly speaking a serious GAME, it is one of the most
   successful applications when it comes to using gamification elements
   for learning.
--
   3 - Immediate and individualized feedback. As opposed to face-to-face
   courses (normally with dozens of people in the classroom and one single
   teacher), serious GAME offer immediate and personalized feedback. The
   player interacts directly with the GAME and instantly receives a reward
   or a punishment. In the most sophisticated video GAME, this feedback
   is also detailed and argued: users can know where they have gone wrong
   and can try to do better next time. If properly imparted, this feedback
   can be a powerful learning tool.

   4 - Simulation. In most cases, serious GAME reproduce or imitate real
   life situations. Using fictitious characters and by recreating
   scenarios, players find themselves immersed in a world similar to the
--
   phone. These simulators make it possible for users to interact with a
   new reality and to practice the skills and concepts they have acquired
   during the GAME.

Example 5: The Virtual Interactive Combat Environment (VICE)
--
   in this latter field is undoubtedly the United States Defense
   Department, probably the public body which has dedicated most money and
   resources to GAME-based learning in the last number of decades. One of
   its best-known video GAME is The Virtual Interactive Combat
   Environment (VICE), which uses a sophisticated 3D simulator to allow
   military personnel to practice conflict resolution, how to use
--

   5 - The goal: to learn. We'll not tire of repeating it: the key element
   of serious GAME is that their purpose is to teach something. All the
   elements we've mentioned above can be found in endless commercial video
   GAME, but that does not necessarily make them serious GAME. As well
   as using all these elements, serious GAME also have to have a purpose
   that is not recreational and that almost always has to do with a
   certain educational or training aspect.

What are the advantages of GAME-based learning and serious GAME?

   When all the above elements are combined successfully, we have a
--
   the major concerns of teachers and HR managers.

   Serious GAME and GAME-based learning are two of the best solutions to
   this problem. Video GAME are necessarily interactive and users have to
   make decisions from the word go. GAME dynamics encourage effort and the
   narrative they are wrapped up in serves to motivate the students. The
   most sophisticated video GAME can even turn learning into an
   addiction. As they explain in the book The Gamification of Learning and
   Instruction Fieldbook, "The more the learner interacts with other
--
   Millennials (both in school and at work) are one of the sectors where
   it can prove hardest to achieve engagement. To solve that problem, in
   Jordan they have developed a video GAME on Facebook called "Our City",
   which seeks to get people between 15 and 24 involved in their local
   communities, enhance their social behavior and invite them to take part
   in the life of the city. The GAME, which has certain similarities with
   the popular The Sims, makes young people mayors, and it allows them to
   build the city from scratch while keeping all the townspeople happy at
--
   day and the next. This makes it hard to strategically plan for the long
   term, and it prevents us from reflecting in any profound way on the
   challenges and opportunities we are facing. Serious GAME, thanks to
   how they can immerse us in other worlds and whisk us away from reality,
   can provide just the distance we need to encourage in-depth reflection
--
   3 - They facilitate real and safe practice

   As opposed to face-to-face training, GAME-based learning is a form of
   learning that is based on practice. Thanks to the simulators, the
   players can interact with other characters and they can use the
   knowledge they have gained from the outset. Serious GAME also offer
   the best of both worlds: on the one hand, the simulators should
   reproduce reality as faithfully as possible; on the other hand, the
   fact that it is a video GAME allows users to practice in safety without
   any risk of personal harm or material damage. This is particularly
   important if we are talking about operating in a surgery or flying a
--

   Real and direct practice is also vital in the corporate world. As is
   the case with the video GAME Merchants (part of the Gamelearn
   platform), which trains employees in any manner of company in how to
   negotiate and in how to resolve conflicts. In Merchants, the players
   are transported to the Venice of the late 15th century. Here they have
   to endeavor to build their commercial empire and to face up to tough
   negotiators such as Machiavelli. This video GAME allows the employees
   of a multinational to handle difficult negotiations that they can then
   apply in the real world, but without their company having to pay the
--
   4 - They improve memorization and retention

   One of the advantages of serious GAME is that by increasing the
   engagement and the motivation of the students, they also increase their
   memorization and retention of what they have learnt. Add to this real
--

   That may well sound overly ambitious, but the fact is that several
   serious GAME have also been so bold as to attempt to change the world.
   The fact that we like gamification and simulators can be a good tool
   for encouraging empathy, promoting peace, defending people's rights or
   spreading civic values. As opposed to the stereotype by which video
   GAME are a cause of antisocial or violent behavior, the reality is
   that GAME-based learning can encourage prosocial and positive attitudes
   for society as a whole.

Example 8: Food Force

   In 2005, the United Nations World Food Programme developed a video GAME
   to promote social awareness and the fight against hunger. In the video
   GAME (Food Force) the players put themselves in the shoes of a UN
   rookie, who has to handle a crisis involving famine and civil war on an
   island in the Pacific. The player's goal is to distribute food among
   the populace and to help the country to become self-sufficient in the
   medium to long term. A fantastic example of how serious GAME can make
   the world a better place.

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/FXkedpXKUtY

The success of serious GAME and GAME-based learning

   All these benefits have placed GAME-based learning at the vanguard of
   the revolution in education that the world of teaching and corporative
   training is experiencing at the moment. Many of these more or less
   sophisticated video GAME are used every day by millions of people (in
   many cases, without their even realizing it). For example, in the
   United Kingdom, most players (33%) prefer video GAME to puzzles, word
   GAME or trivial pursuits. Although not all of them can be considered
   serious GAME, it is a good indicator of the growing acceptance of
   GAME-based learning throughout the world.

   Serious GAME are also a very serious business. According to estimates
   made by the consultancy Marketandmarkets, this sector will grow between
   2015 and 2020 at an average annual rate of 16.38%, which will mean that
   last year the business will have reached 5.449 billion dollars. There
   is a growing demand for learning through video GAME and little by
   little, the market is responding to that demand.

   The reasons why GAME-based learning is so popular, are becoming much
   more well known: as we have seen, they improve student engagement and
   motivation, they afford direct practice without risk, and they
   facilitate the memorization and retention of knowledge. While serious
   GAME have been around for centuries (let's not forget that ever since
   we were small we've all been learning as we play), the social and
   technological changes of recent years are extending GAME-based learning
   to the four corners of the planet. Whether it is to improve the
   training of nurses, to help primary school kids learn geometry or to
   promote leadership skills among the employees of a company, serious
   GAME have become one of the most practical and effective teaching
   tools in the world today.

--

   The importance of asking your coachee the right questions
   The top 10 GAME-based learning leaders you should follow

   The top 10 GAME-based learning leaders you should follow
   7 key benefits that GAME-based learning brings to corporate training

   7 key benefits that GAME-based learning brings to corporate training
   Multiversity wins LearnX Award in

   Multiversity wins LearnX Award in "Best e-learning Design" with a
   serious GAME powered by Gamelearn

Leave a comment Cancel reply
--
          + Productivity
          + Communication
     * Tailor-made video GAME
     * Request a demo
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-25">
<text>
--
   Features

Why We Play BoardGAME

   My husband and I have spent the last ten years playing board GAME
   together. No, I'm not talking about seeing if we need anger management
   classes by playing Monopoly or choosing which career path we want to
--
   we weren't really into the "typical" dates. Rather than dinner and a
   movie or going to college parties, we spent the majority of our time
   together learning card GAME, and teaching each other our family
   favorites. When we tired of Canasta and Sequence, we began looking for
   something new and stumbled into the world of hobby board gaming. We
   started out slow like a swimmer testing the water, and over the years
   have dove head first into the deep end where our hobby has grown into
   shelves full of GAME that have brought us, our family, and our friends
   closer together through hours spent laughing, playing, and enjoying
   each others company over the many different GAME brought to the table.

   While this is definitely a hobby of ours, over the years and as our
--
   many reasons why we love board gaming and why we have made it an
   important part of our family for us and our four kids. We think that
   every family can benefit by incorporating board GAME into their lives.
   Yes, I know that may sound a bit nerdy, but here us out.

--
   we make sure to actually schedule time for our family to just be
   together and bond; no places to be except home with each other. We use
   this time to play GAME with our kids. Now, our kids are young, so it's
   not always as idyllic as we go into it hoping it will be. But what we
   see is our kids engaged with each other learning to take turns, follow
--
   their own lives, its the importance of spending meaningful time
   together and finding joy in simple fun, whether that comes from a board
   GAME or not.

   GAME also allow us to have great date nights at home. Finding a sitter
--
   when we can't we are still making time for us to be together and pursue
   one another. We'll put the kids to bed, come downstairs, and for a few
   hours we'll take time to play a GAME. Maybe we'll even spend what we
   would have spent on a date and get a new GAME to enjoy; when it comes
   to bang for your buck, you can't beat buying a board GAME that you will
   be able to enjoy a countless number of times rather than just once.

--
   is that as technology has taken over more of my life, I am looking for
   more and more ways to unplug. When we spend a night engaged in a board
   GAME, we walk away with memories, laughs, and a fun experience that can
   only come from face-to-face social interaction. Board GAME are
   incredibly versatile; you can take them with you to play indoors or
   out, and they open the door for a wonderful social experience with your
--

   You'd be surprised by the level of mental engagement required to play
   modern board GAME. In GAME like Candyland, the winner is already
   determined before the first card has even been flipped - there is
   nothing you can do. But in today's board GAME you have a variety of
   styles, from puzzles to tactical area control GAME to keep you and
   your brain sharp and always thinking. The challenges provided by
   physical board GAME are better than anything you'll find in some app,
   even apps of the board GAME you might be playing.

   The strategy required to play and win requires you to make touch
--
   the reading and language skills required to interpret the rules,
   hand-eye dexterity enhancment, and math skills required to play the
   GAME itself.  Whether you're playing a difficult strategy GAME or a
   light hearted party GAME, there are an endless number of options that
   invite you to think through a variety of mental challenges, making you
   perhaps just a bit smarter along the way.
--
   Something for Everyone

   As mentioned above, we have been hobbyist board gamers for the last ten
   years, which seems kind of crazy thinking about it. But over the years
   this really has developed into a passion for us. We board GAME for many
   reasons, more than even listed above, but the main reason is, without a
   doubt, for the experiences it provides between us and our family and
   friends. We love being able to gather round a table, phones aside, and
   spend time connecting with people, old friends and new. The board GAME
   is really just a vehicle for us to bring people together and enjoy each
   others company. Over the last ten years we've had our fair share of
   friends and family that have told us that they "don't like board GAME"
   and time and time again, we've found that there truly is something for
   everyone in this hobby.

   You don't have to like every GAME, we certainly don't, but the
   diversity offered by today's GAME is simply incredible and if you've
   made it this far down this post and are wondering where to start, then
   you're in luck! What would a post about the benefits of board gaming
--
   hobby is truly a joy and is something that we love to share with anyone
   who will let us and especially our kids who have no choice! So without
   further ado, here are some board GAME ideas to get you started!

   Happy Gaming!
--
   Ticket to Ride

   This GAME has really broken through the hobby wall and has become much
   more mainstream over the years, you may have even seen it in your local
   Target. This GAME is simple to learn, but far more layered in its
   tactical strategy. Players collect cards of various types of train cars
   that they then use to claim railway routes across North America. The
   longer the route, the more points earned. Along the way you try to
   complete Destination Tickets, secret routes connecting distant cities
   that will score you more points at the end of the GAME. You must
   balance greed as you take on more routes to earn more points, and fear
   as you might lose a critical route to a competitor and thus cost
   yourself points in the end.

   This GAME has a multitude of expansions offering different train maps
   featuring different countries and states, but we recommend the original
   GAME with the North American map to start and it is great for the whole
   family starting at about age 8.

--

   More of a cooperative player? Great! You might love Pandemic! In this
   GAME several virulent diseases have broken out simultaneously all
   across the globe and it is your mission to fight these while
   researching cures before they take over the world. Players take on
--
   situation gets out of hand.

   This GAME is incredibly fun and endlessly re-playable. Start at a
   beginners difficulty level, once you've mastered that, work your way up
   to expert and see if you've got what it takes. This is a great way to
   work on your kids' problem solving skills and is best for gamers of all
   ages starting at age 10.

   King of Tokyo

   If you know how to play Yahtzee you can play this GAME, promise! King
   of Tokyo is a hit with everyone as players take on the role of mutant
   monsters, robots, and aliens all trying to destroy the other and become
--

   With a little help from an adult, King of Tokyo can easily be played by
   gamers as young as 6, but don't let that deter you, this is far from a
   kid GAME and will offer tons of fun for teens and adult gamers as
   well.

   Survive: Escape from Atlantis!

   Survive is a simple, yet cutthroat GAME where players try to evacuate
   their pieces from an island that is breaking up while remembering where
   their highest-valued pieces are located to maximize score. The journey
--
   monsters. Find out who your true friends are as you all attempt to
   sabotage each other's escape plans so you can stand victorious with the
   most points on shore before the island blows up. This GAME plays up to
   four and works well for ages 6 and above.

   This post contains affiliate links at no cost to you. To read our full
   disclosure click here.
   board GAME

Related Posts
--
   asking to play Holly Jolly a bunch, and with all the great, festive
   math practice it has, it's an easy yes! Sharing this and more fun
   Christmas themed GAME on the blog today! Head to TheTabletopFamily.com
   to check it out! My kids have been asking to play Holly Jolly a bunch,
   and with all the great, festive math practice it has, it's an easy yes!
   Sharing this and more fun Christmas themed GAME on the blog today!
   Head to TheTabletopFamily.com to check it out!
   I'll play these GAME any day, any time! I'll play these GAME any day,
   any time! I'll play these GAME any day, any time!
   I get it! Sometimes it can be hard getting a group I get it! Sometimes
   it can be hard getting a group to all agree to play a GAME. These tips
   are what we use when bringing GAME to or hosting gatherings for our
   This isn't the time to grab that brand new GAME and learn the rules at
   the party. You want to go for the GAME you've played countless times
   and can quickly teach. Your confidence will help build their
--
   Since everyone might be arriving to the gathering at different times or
   joining the table after cleaning up those Christmas dessert dishes, I
   like to select GAME that they can easily be dealt into half way
   through or join a team. If not that, then GAME with quick rounds for
   just start setting the GAME up! If you have a GAME you know you're
   group will love, get the ball rolling and take action. I even love to
   ask a soon-to-be-player to help me set the GAME up. "Hey could you
   shuffle these for me?" We never force anyone to join in, but you'll be
   surprised how quickly folks come over to see what's happening and end
   up joining in on the fun. So don't be afraid to make the first move and
   get the GAME on the table! Now you'll be needing some GAME ideas! Here
   are 5 of our favorites to bring to gatherings with friends and family:
   Just One Ready Set Bet Cover Your Assets Point Salad Challengers! I get
   it! Sometimes it can be hard getting a group to all agree to play a
   GAME. These tips are what we use when bringing GAME to or hosting
   know back to front. This isn't the time to grab that brand new GAME and
   learn the rules at the party. You want to go for the GAME you've
   played countless times and can quickly teach. Your confidence will help
--
   easily! Since everyone might be arriving to the gathering at different
   times or joining the table after cleaning up those Christmas dessert
   dishes, I like to select GAME that they can easily be dealt into half
   way through or join a team. If not that, then GAME with quick rounds
   moment, just start setting the GAME up! If you have a GAME you know
   you're group will love, get the ball rolling and take action. I even
   love to ask a soon-to-be-player to help me set the GAME up. "Hey could
   you shuffle these for me?" We never force anyone to join in, but you'll
   be surprised how quickly folks come over to see what's happening and
   end up joining in on the fun. So don't be afraid to make the first move
   and get the GAME on the table! Now you'll be needing some GAME ideas!
   Here are 5 of our favorites to bring to gatherings with friends and
   family: Just One Ready Set Bet Cover Your Assets Point Salad
   Challengers!
   Codenames is one of the best party GAME. That fee Codenames is one of
   the best party GAME. That feeling of excitment that comes when you are
   able to successfully deliver a clever clue that your teammates
   correctly interpret will never get old! It's one of the more thoughtful
   party GAME and a great example of pairing fun with strategy. If you're
   a fan of Codenames or are looking for some great party GAME to play
   this holiday season, then check out these other great titles! Don't
   forget to share in the comments the GAME you would add to these
   suggestions! And if you're hungry for more GAME ideas, I'm sharing a
   full post on the blog today! Codenames is one of the best party GAME.
   That feeling of excitment that comes when you are able to successfully
   deliver a clever clue that your teammates correctly interpret will
   never get old! It's one of the more thoughtful party GAME and a great
   example of pairing fun with strategy. If you're a fan of Codenames or
   are looking for some great party GAME to play this holiday season,
   then check out these other great titles! Don't forget to share in the
   comments the GAME you would add to these suggestions! And if you're
   hungry for more GAME ideas, I'm sharing a full post on the blog today!
   Nothing better than a good refresh! Nothing better than a good refresh!
   Nothing better than a good refresh!
   Want to know a fun surprise in this GAME? You can Want to know a fun
   surprise in this GAME? You can scan each package with your phone to
   find out what's inside! Such a fun touch! Want to know a fun surprise
   in this GAME? You can scan each package with your phone to find out
   what's inside! Such a fun touch!
   Load More... Follow on Instagram
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-26">
<text>
   of over consumption take a social direction for boys and an emotional
   direction for girls. Also, ADHD was significantly associated with over
   consumption of video GAME and the negative consequences thereof for
   girls.

--
   preoccupation with gaming; withdrawal, experience of unpleasant
   symptoms when gaming is taken away; tolerance, the need to spend
   increasing amounts of time engaged in GAME; loss of control,
   unsuccessful attempts to control participation in GAME; Give up other
   activities, loss of interest in previous hobbies and entertainment as a
   result of, and with the exception of, internet GAME; continuation,
   continued excessive gaming despite knowledge of psychosocial problems;
   deception, deceiving family members, therapists, or others regarding
   the quantity of gaming; escape, the use of GAME to avoid or relieve
   negative moods; and negative consequences, risking or losing an
   important relationship, job or education or career opportunity due to
   participation in GAME. Five of the nine criteria must be met within a
   year to be diagnosed as IGD (1). However, APA indicated that further
   clinical experience and research was needed before inclusion of IGD as
--
   Different researchers have used different cutoffs of the criteria to
   establish a diagnosis (5-8), others have focused strictly on online
   GAME (9), and some researchers have adopted their own criteria for
   disordered gaming (10, 11). One of the most frequently used
   questionnaires for disordered gaming in adolescents is the GASA (GAME
--
   with addiction while the contrary is true for the criteria for
   withdrawal, relapse, conflicts and problems (5, 13, 14). The core
   approach thus distinguishes engaged gamers from problem- and addicted
   gamers by emphasizing the "core criteria" namely, withdrawal, relapse,
   conflict and problems in order to yield a more precise and relevant
   estimate of prevalence whereby a diagnosis of GAME addiction should be
   related to comorbidity and interference rather than high engagement
   (13, 14, 17, 20).
--
   dimensions in GamTest (23). The application of this psycho-social model
   specification enables an exploration of over consumption as an
   explanatory variable for problematic use of GAME rather than just
   charting peripheral components, in accordance with the Charlton and
   Danford suggestion that the peripheral criteria might precede the core
--
   paragraph 3 (conceptual model) and 4 (GASA instrument) in the
   electronic supplement. This model specification aims to consider over
   consumption as an explanatory variable for problematic use of GAME
   rather than a peripheral component.

--
   consequences core items into social and emotional consequences.
   Interestingly, our findings suggest that over consumption of video
   GAME is more heavily associated with negative consequences for male
   gamers but also that their negative consequences of over consumption
   tend to be social rather than emotional, as was the case for female
   gamers. ADHD was significantly associated with over consumption of
   video GAME and the negative consequences thereof for girls. The male
   participants over consumed GAME to a higher degree than the females
   and showed more severe consequences, regardless of a potential ADHD
   diagnosis.
--
   factor for disordered gaming (30, 40) but whether the time spent
   constitute a greater risk for boys than for girls remains unclear. Our
   findings suggest that the association between over consumption of GAME
   and negative consequences thereof is stronger for boys. Further, our
   results suggest that the negative consequences of over consumption take
--
   distinction that warrant additional investigation. Bonnaire et al.
   investigated gender differences in disordered gaming and showed that
   male gamers were disproportionately more likely to be single than
   female gamers whereas the female gamers showed a higher anxiety score
   (31). Possibly, the results presented by Bonnaire et al. (31) supports
   the tendency shown in this study using the three-factor structure of
--
   risk factor for disordered gaming (32, 33, 43-46). In the current CAP
   sample, ADHD was significantly associated with over consumption of
   video GAME and the negative consequences thereof for girls, an
   association that was not seen among the male participants. Possibly,
   our results could be interpreted as being diagnosed with ADHD increases
   the risk of over consumption of computer GAME and the negative
   consequences thereof more for girls than for boys. To our knowledge,
   this gender discrepancy has not previously been explored. However,
--
   designed for children and youth in order to illuminate the complexity
   of gaming behavior. Our results suggest that the association between
   over consumption of GAME and negative consequences thereof is stronger
   for boys than for girls. Negative consequences of over consumption take
   a social direction for boys and an emotional direction for girls. ADHD
   was significantly associated with over consumption of video GAME and
   the negative consequences thereof for girls, an association that was
   not seen among the male participants. Together, our findings should
--
   PubMed Abstract | Google Scholar

   4. Gentile D. Pathological video-GAME use among youth ages 8 to 18: a
   national study. Psychol Sci. (2009) 20:594-602. doi:
   10.1111/j.1467-9280.2009.02340.x
--

   5. Charlton JP, Danforth IDW. Distinguishing addiction and high
   engagement in the context of online GAME playing. Comp Human Behav.
   (2007) 23:1531-48. doi: 10.1016/j.chb.2005.07.002

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   6. Chou TJ, Ting CC. The role of flow experience in cyber-GAME
   addiction. Cyberpsychol Behav. (2003) 6:663-75. doi:
   10.1089/109493103322725469
--
   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   7. Griffiths M, Hunt N. Computer GAME playing in adolescence:
   prevalence and demographic indicators. J Commun Appl Soc Psychol.
   (1995) 5:189-93. doi: 10.1002/casp.2450050307
--
   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   11. Chiu SI, Lee JZ, Huang DH. Video GAME addiction in children and
   teenagers in Taiwan. Cyberpsychol Behav. (2004) 7:571-81. doi:
   10.1089/cpb.2004.7.571
--

   GAME addiction, associated with depression, academic achievement, heavy
   episodic drinking, or conduct problems? J Behav Addict. (2014) 3:27-32.
   doi: 10.1556/JBA.3.2014.002
--

   13. Brunborg GS, Hanss D, Mentzoni RA, Pallesen S. Core and peripheral
   criteria of video GAME addiction in the GAME addiction scale for
   adolescents. Cyberpsychol Behav Soc Netw. (2015) 18:280-5. doi:
   10.1089/cyber.2014.0509
--

   15. Lemmens JS, Valkenburg PM, Peter J. Development and validation of a
   GAME addiction scale for adolescents. Med Psychol. (2009) 12:77-95.
   doi: 10.1080/15213260802669458

--
   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   18. Donati MA, Sanson F, Mazzarese M, Primi C. Assessing video GAME
   habits and pathological behaviour in children through a new scale:
   psychometric properties of the video-gaming scale--for children
--

   21. Khazaal Y, Chatton A, Rothen S, Achab S, Thorens G, Zullino D, et
   al. Psychometric properties of the 7-item GAME addiction scale among
   french and German speaking adults. BMC Psychiatry. (2016) 16:132. doi:
   10.1186/s12888-016-0836-3
--

   Evaluating the psychometric properties of the 7-item persian GAME
   addiction scale for iranian adolescents. Front Psychol. (2019) 10:1-13.
   doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2019.00149
--

   35. Charlton JP, Danforth IDW. Validating the distinction between
   computer addiction and engagement: online GAME playing and personality.
   Behav Inform Technol. (2010) 29:601-13. doi: 10.1080/01449290903401978

--

   41. Nuyens F, Deleuze J, Maurage P, Griffiths MD, Kuss DJ, Billieux J.
   Impulsivity in multiplayer online battle arena gamers: preliminary
   results on experimental and self-report measures. J Behav Addict.
   (2016) 5:351-6. doi: 10.1556/2006.5.2016.028
--
   Google Scholar

--
   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   44. Durkin K. VideoGAME and young people with developmental disorders.
   Rev General Psychol. (2010) 14:122-40. doi: 10.1037/a0019438
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-27">
<text>
   (BUTTON) Cite this article

   Human history and GAME are inextricably intertwined. Irrefutable
   evidence resounds down through the ages that fun and GAME are not
   frivolous pursuits per se--instead, they come naturally to us as
   essential parts of being alive. When you understand the evolution of
   GAME, you can begin to make intelligent choices about what elements of
   GAME you might want to include in your gamification designs.

A Dim and Distant Past
--
   other, and that kind of thing. Assuming, as seems likely, that human
   beings are just better evolved monkeys, it's likely that we've been
   playing GAME for a long, long time. We were probably playing GAME
   before we learned to speak or even to stand on two legs.

   That means we have no idea what the first GAME we played were like.
   However, we do have a good idea of the timeline of modern GAME
   development.

--
   oldest known gaming tools known to man. During an excavation in
   Southeastern Iran, archeologists discovered a 3,000-year-old set of
   dice! We don't know exactly what GAME those early Persians would have
   played with them, but the popularity of dice has endured throughout the
   centuries.

   Dice GAME have been with mankind for a very long time, as you can see
   from this cave painting.


   In 14th-century England, people were playing a GAME called Hazard (it's
   mentioned in that famous work The Canterbury Tales by Geoffrey
   Chaucer), and Hazard didn't fall out of favour until the 19th century.
   It had a very complex rule set and has since been supplanted by dice
   GAME with simpler rules.

     "Take a simple idea and take it seriously."
--
   cube with dots and nothing more--as an effective, if chancy,
   determinant is ageless. You may not know this, but the most popular
   GAME in casinos would remain--well into the 21st century--a dice GAME.
   Craps is the only GAME in a gambling house where the odds are in favour
   of the gambler. Despite this, it's the most profitable GAME for the
   casinos; people don't seem to know just when to stop playing. And play
   they do--elsewhere, too, using dice in a range of fun-filled activities
--
Tiles and Dominoes

   There are references to tile GAME in China that are over 2,900 years
   old. Dominoes emerged 1,000 years later during the Song Dynasty (also
   in China). However, Western dominoes probably only began in the 18th
   century, and Mahjong (the most popular tile GAME in the world - it's of
   Chinese origin) didn't arrive until the 19th century.

Board GAME are Even Older

   If you enjoy a GAME of Monopoly or Scrabble, it would appear that you
   are in good company. The earliest known board GAME are 5,000 years old
   and were played by the Egyptians. We don't know the rules of these
   GAME, but there is a "Senet" board that dates back to about 3500 B.C.!

   The Chinese invented their first known board GAME in 200 B.C., and, in
   Western Europe, they were playing Tafl (a GAME very similar to chess)
   from 400 B.C.

   Chess is often considered to be the "archetypal" board GAME and is
   itself very old, but there were board GAME well prior to the invention
   of chess.

--

   If you've ever played Go, Chess, Backgammon or Nine Men's Morris, then
   you've played a GAME with more than a thousand years of history! Go is
   from 200 B.C. in Korea, Backgammon from Iran around 600 A.D. (complete
   with dice), Chess from India around the same time and Nine Men's Morris
--
   Empire!

   Snakes and Ladders, one of the world's most popular children's GAME
   probably began in India in the 16th century. And, surprise, surprise,
   dice power the probability for players in that GAME, too.

   The first commercial board GAME arrived in the year 1800 and was
   produced by George Fox in England. It was called the Mansion of
   Happiness and was essentially a "race GAME" similar to Ludo. The oldest
   surviving board GAME company is Milton Bradley (whose famous GAME
   include; Downfall, Hungry Hippos and Connect 4), who were formed in
   1860!

   The Mansion of Happiness was the very first board GAME to be produced
   commercially (i.e., on an industrial basis).

--
Deal Me In!

   Card GAME are a more recent invention, and the first use of a card
   deck was probably in Ancient China. They would have been played during
   the Tang Dynasty (6th century A.D. - 9th century A.D.). Cards reached
--

   The four-suit (hearts, spades, clubs and diamonds) deck that we're most
   familiar with was invented in France around 1480. The oldest card GAME
   that we still play is probably Cribbage, which came from the 17th
   century. Bridge didn't arrive until the early 19th century.

   In the 1990s, cards were revisited and GAME like `Magic! The
   Gathering' were introduced and became incredibly popular. Card GAME
   would also extend to trumps--a classic favourite in British schools,
   featuring items from racing cars to spacecraft, Western gunfighters and
--
Table GAME

   Carom, is possibly the oldest table GAME (it's very similar to
   tiddlywinks or shuffleboard), but no-one knows exactly when or where it
   came into existence. Pool, billiards and snooker are all relatively
   recent inventions, and roulette only arrived in the 19th century.

   The GAME pictured above, may look (at first glance) like pool, but it's
   actually a modern billiards table--as you can see by the lack of
   pockets on the table.
--
You're in Good Company

   As you can see, GAME have a long rich history, and whenever you decide
   to play a GAME, you're in good company. Human beings have been playing
   GAME throughout the centuries. They are part of the human experience.

What about Electronic GAME?

   You may be surprised to find that the first electronic GAME was
   invented in the United States before the computer! A patent was filed
   back in 1947 for a "Cathode ray tube amusement device". In the 1950s,
   also in the United States, (very few) people began playing computer
   GAME on mainframe systems - these would have been out of reach for the
   vast majority of people as the hardware would have been astronomically
   expensive.

   The first GAME console was the Magnavox Odyssey - released in 1972.
   Arcade GAME such as Space Invaders, Pacman, etc. began life in 1978
   and became hugely popular into the early 1980s. During that time, quite
   a few consoles were released, but a crash in the American gaming
   industry killed off most of the companies involved in 1983. When the
   Japanese picked up the reins and began developing video GAME, console
   gaming became universally popular, signalling the slow downfall of the
   arcade GAME.

     "Everyone has played video GAME at some point these days, and video
     GAME are fun."
     --PewDiePie, Swedish comedian and web producer

   GAME have a long history, as you can see, and the electronic GAME's
   roots stretch right back to the earliest of human GAME. It's not that
   our ancestors needed to tell us that GAME go with the territory of
   being alive; GAME are hardwired into our DNA.

The Take Away

   Human history and GAME are inextricably intertwined. For millennia,
   people have held an innate compulsion to play, and that won't change
   anytime soon. What they needed, they innovated, leaving us a wealthy
   legacy of devices through the centuries, ranging from the basic but
   powerful wonder of dice, to the timeless strategising involved in
   chess, and on up to a library of latter-day board GAME that run the
   gamut in their levels of sophistication. As long as you've got an
   understanding the evolution of GAME, you can begin to make intelligent
   choices about what elements of GAME you might want to include in your
   gamification designs.

--
   Course: Gamification - How to Create Engaging User Experiences

   The Institute of Play examines the history of GAME in a learning
   context.

--

   Bartle's Player Types for Gamification
   Gamification is not the same as GAME design, because it adds GAME-like
   elements to non-gaming environments. However, the
     * 1k shares
--
   Read article

A GAME Explained (an example of a single GAME and how it meets the rules of
fun)

   A GAME Explained (an example of a single GAME and how it meets the
   rules of fun)
   Fun is the key to how GAME work, and it's the key to making
   gamification work, too. Without fun, gamification is simply
     * 818 shares
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-28">
<text>
The Most Popular School Playground GAME

   Children play many classic outdoor GAME on school playgrounds, many of
   which have been played for generations, and some are new for this
   generation of youngsters. Kids love playing, whether it's during
   recess, after school, on the weekend or all summer long.

   There are some GAME kids often play on playground equipment, whether
   it's making believe they're in a castle or mountain climbing. Kids have
   such active imaginations, though, that they can play GAME even when
   there's nothing but asphalt, blacktop or a sidewalk to play on.

   Academic studies are certainly important, but playing GAME at school
   is just as helpful for growth and learning. GAME help kids stay in
   shape, develop their creative abilities and build social skills -- what
--

   It would be impossible to list all the different types of children's
   playground GAME, especially when you consider all the children's GAME
   worldwide. The following list, however, includes many simple and
   classic outdoor playground GAME that children have played in
   schoolyards for generations:

--
1. Dodge Ball

   Dodge Ball is a great GAME to get students active. Two evenly-numbered
   teams line up their dodgeballs in the middle of a court and retreat to
   each end. On the signal, they rush to the center to grab a ball and
   throw it at opposing players, eliminating them from the GAME. The team
   that eliminates all players from the other team wins the GAME.

2. Double Dutch

   A popular jump rope GAME, Double Dutch, requires at least three people.
   Two players swing jump ropes in opposite directions, while the third
   player jumps between them without disrupting them. Players often chant
   or sing a rhyme to help time the jumps. This is a great GAME to teach
   kids to coordinate with others.

3. Heads Up Seven Up

   Heads Up Seven Up is a classic classroom GAME in which seven "choosers"
   make their way around a group of players who have their heads down and
   one thumb raised. Each chooser taps one thumb, and the players try to
--
   One player chooses an object and says, "I spy with my little eye,"
   giving a description of the item like its color. Players take turns
   guessing what the item is. Use this GAME to help students develop their
   investigative skills.

--
Jack Playground GAME Jack Playground GAME

   Another great GAME to play on the playground is jacks. Players need
   jacks and a small rubber ball for jacks. Players bounce the ball on the
   ground and catch a set number of jacks in the opposite hand,
--
7. Jump Rope

   A good GAME for a single child or a team, jump rope has nearly endless
   variations. Players swing and jump over a rope, seeing how many jumps
   they can make without touching it.
--
8. Kickball

   Kickball is one of the most popular outdoor GAME for kids. The GAME is
   similar to baseball, except players kick a dodge ball instead of
   swinging a bat.
--
   Don't have a hot potato on hand? No problem! Students can play hot
   potato on the playground with a ball or soft object. Students stand in
   a circle and pass the ball. If they drop it, they are out. The GAME
   continues until there is only one player standing.

--

   Charades is an excellent way for kids to use their imagination. To make
   gameplay simple, you will need 2 small containers and some paper
   scraps.

--
The Benefits of Kids GAME

   With childhood obesity rising in America, active GAME are particularly
   important for kids to play. Activities that utilize playground
   equipment, jump ropes or other body movements help get kids moving.
   When kids are inactive during their recesses at school and spend their
   free time at home playing video GAME and watching TV instead of going
   outside, they are developing behaviors that could hold them back for
   the rest of their lives.
--
   beneficial because they help to strengthen mental and social
   skills that will come in handy as they enter middle school, high
   school, college and the job market. The GAME that kids play on the
   school and park playground offer many benefits, whether they're
   creative GAME that use their imagination or active GAME that work out
   their body. Children should be encouraged to play these simple
   playground GAME as much as possible.

   Shop Playground Equipment From Miracle Recreation Shop Playground
--
Shop Playground Equipment From Miracle Recreation

   Playground GAME are a vital part of a child's development, and as a
   bonus, they're fun! With a list of entertaining indoor or outdoor GAME
   for kids, you can help them grow in important ways.
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-29">
<text>
Small GAME Hunting

   Although there are many opportunities for hunting small GAME in
   Washington, small GAME hunting is not nearly as popular as big GAME
   hunting. Often, hunters pursue small GAME while they are hunting other
   species. Popular small GAME animals include bobcats, raccoons, rabbits
   and hares, foxes, and coyotes. Small GAME animals are found in all
   areas that offer suitable habitats. Hunting methods and techniques
   vary, depending upon hunter skill and knowledge.

   A hunting license is required to hunt all small GAME species. Some
   species, such as coyote, may be hunted year round with few exceptions.
   Other species, such as cottontails and raccoons, may be hunted only
--
License Information

   The small GAME license in Washington State allows the holder to hunt
   for wild animals and wild birds except big GAME. There are additional
   charges for turkey tags, western Washington pheasant permits, and
   migratory bird validations.
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-30">
<text>
--
   Cats

10 GAME you can play with your cat

   Share
--
   you keep your feline friend active when you can. The first step in
   ensuring a happy and healthy life for your cat is to mentally stimulate
   their brain. Here are some fun, interactive GAME to build a bond and
   keep your furry friend entertained.

--
   Hide and seek

   A GAME like hide-and-seek is a useful way to build a bond with your
   cat. You can hide behind a couch, desk, or bed and it is a fantastic
   GAME to play indoors.The goal here is for your cat to playfully stalk
   you, as if you were their prey! Some cats even enjoy the hiding part
   and tuck themselves away somewhere while you look for them.This is a
   good way to connect GAME with excitement and mental stimulation.

   Tablet GAME

   There are so many free GAME to keep your cat amused on your phone or
   tablet. Your cat will be entertained as they attempt to catch their
   digital prey with a variety of moving fish, mice, and other tempting
--
   while you quickly move it about, just out of your fur baby's reach.

   Cats love a variety of GAME and toys so keeping them rotated will
   ensure they never get bored. Giving your cat the nutrients they need is
   important when it comes to generating enough energy to play. Shop our
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-31">
<text>

   One of the best parts of being a dog owner is finding fun and
   constructive GAME for dogs. Engaging in physically and mentally
   stimulating exercise with your dog is a great way to keep them healthy.
   It also strengthens your bond.

   Whether it's GAME to play with your dog inside or outside, teaching
   your dog interactive GAME with treats as a reward or discovering
   mental GAME for dogs, there are many ways to keep your dog (and you)
   entertained virtually anywhere

--
1. Fetch

   Almost every dog gets excited over a GAME of fetch, as it's a classic
   GAME for humans and dogs alike. All you need is a yard, park or field,
   a tennis ball or frisbee and an enthusiastic dog to have some fun.

   Fetch is an excellent GAME for energetic dogs. It provides plenty of
   physical exercise while helping them fulfill their instinct to run. It
   can also keep your dog mentally engaged and challenged by trying
--
2. Tug of War

   Another classic GAME most dogs love is playing tug of war. Great for
   both indoor or outdoor play, tug of war is fun and engaging for your
   dog. Plus, all that pulling and tugging is a good source of physical
   exercise. Avoid overexciting your dog with this GAME, and don't let
   children play this one.

--
3. Hide the Treat or Hide &amp Seek

   If you're looking to play mentally stimulating mind GAME for dogs, you
   can't go wrong with hide the treat. This dog enrichment GAME is a fun
   way for them to exercise their problem-solving skills. Simply leave a
   trail by rubbing the treat on a few spots along the way to its hiding
--

   Unleash your dog's natural hunting instincts in a positive way that
   won't result in local squirrels scampering up a tree. This GAME uses a
   flirt pole. A flirt pole is a long pole or stick with a rope attached
   to one end. You can either purchase a flirt pole or make one with a
--
Avoid Overstimulation

   There are lots of GAME to play with dogs both inside and outside.
   Having fun with your dog enriches both of your lives but avoid play
   that's too aggressive or leads to overstimulation.
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-32">
<text>
   An op-ed article appeared recently in the The New York Times
   discussing the Supreme Court's decision to strike down California's law
   barring the sale or rental of violent video GAME to people under 18.
   The author, Dr. Cheryl Olson,   describes how the proposed law was
   based on the erroneous assumption that such GAME influence violent
   behavior in real life.

   Dr. Olson suggests that the deliberately outrageous nature of violent
   GAME, though disturbing, makes them easily discernible from real life
   and suggests that the interactivity could potentially make such GAME
   less harmful.

   She raises the question of how these two behaviors can be linked if
   youth violence has declined over the last several years while violent
   video GAME playing has increased significantly during the same period.

   This analysis ignores the fact that such variation may be explained by
   factors other than the link between the two. A spurious variable-a
   third variable that explains the relationship between two other
   variables--may explain the negative correlation of video GAME playing
   and violent behavior. As one example, socioeconomic status may explain
   both a decline in violent behavior and an increase in video GAME
   playing. More affluent youth have the means and time to buy and play
   video GAME, which keeps them safely inside while avoiding potentially
   violent interactions on the street.  Dr. Olsen also cites several
   studies that have failed to show a connection between violent video
   GAME playing and violent behavior among youth.

   This conclusion, however, may not be as clear cut as it appears.
--
   ).  Although the Columbine tragedy and others like it make the
   headlines, youth are killed everyday by the hands of another.  A more
   critical analysis of the link between video GAME playing and violence
   is necessary for fully understanding a complex problem like youth
   violent behavior that has many causes and correlates.

Studies support a link between violent video GAME and aggressive behavior

   Researchers have reported experimental evidence linking violent video
   GAME to more aggressive behavior, particularly as it relates to
   children who are at more sensitive stages in their socialization.
   These effects have been found to be particularly profound in the case
--
       Adolescents, Anderson, Gentile, and Buckley provide an in depth
       analysis of three recent studies they conducted  comparing the
       effects of interactive (video GAME) versus passive (television and
       movies) media violence on aggression and violence.
          + In one study, 161 9- to 12-year olds and 354 college students
            were randomly assigned to play either a violent or nonviolent
            video GAME.  The participants subsequently played another
            computer GAME in which they set punishment levels to be
            delivered to another person participating in the study (they
            were not actually administered).  Information was also
            gathered on each participant's recent history of violent
            behavior; habitual video GAME, television, and move habits,
            and several other control variables.  The authors reported
            three main findings: 1) participants who played one of violent
            video GAME would choose to punish their opponents with
            significantly more high-noise blasts than those who played the
            nonviolent GAME; 2) habitual exposure to violent media was
            associated with higher levels of recent violent behavior; and
            3) interactive forms of media violence were more strongly
--
            variables, and aggressive behaviors of an adolescent
            population.  High school students (N=189) completed surveys
            about their violent TV, movie, and video GAME exposure,
            attitudes towards violence, and perceived norms about violent
            behavior and personality traits.  After statistically
            controlling for sex, total screen time and aggressive beliefs
            and attitudes, the authors found that playing violent video
            GAME predicted heightened physically aggressive behavior and
            violent behavior in the real world in a long-term context.
          + In a third study, Anderson et al. conducted a longitudinal
            study of elementary school students to examine if violent
            video GAME exposure resulted in increases in aggressive
            behavior over time.  Surveys were given to 430 third, fourth,
            and fifth graders, their peers, and their teachers at two
            times during a school year.  The survey assessed both media
            habits and their attitudes about violence.  Results indicated
            that children who played more violent video GAME early in a
            school year changed to see the world in a more aggressive way
            and also changed to become more verbally and physically
--
       These included experimental laboratory work, cross-sectional
       surveys and longitudinal studies.  Overall, they found consistent
       associations between playing violent video GAME and many measures
       of aggression, including self, teacher and parent reports of
       aggressive behavior.  Although the correlations were not high
--
       suggested in the 2001 Surgeon General's Report on youth violence.

Violent video GAME may increase precursors to violent behavior, such as
bullying

   Although playing violent video GAME may not necessarily determine
   violent or aggressive behavior, it may increase precursors to violent
   behavior.  In fact, Dr. Olson points out that violent video GAME may
   be related to bullying, which researchers have found to be a risk
   factor for more serious violent behavior. Therefore, video GAME playing
   may have an indirect effect on violent behavior by increasing risk
   factors for it.  Doug Gentile notes that the only way for violent video
   GAME to affect serious criminal violence statistics is if they were
   the primary predictor of crime, which they may not be.  Rather, they
   represent one risk factor among many for aggression
   (http://www.apa.org/monitor/2010/12/virtual-violence.aspx).

Should video GAME be regulated?

   L. Rowell Huesmann (2010) points out that violent video GAME playing
   may be similar to other public health threats such as exposure to
   cigarette smoke and led based paint .  Despite not being guaranteed,
--
   (and other lead-based products such as gasoline) because it is a risk
   factor for negative health outcomes.  Huesmann argues the same analysis
   could be applied to video GAME exposure.  Although exposure to violent
   video GAME is not the sole factor contributing to aggression and
   violence among children and adolescents, it is a contributing risk
   factor that is modifiable.
--
   fighting and conflict) increases the risk for youth violent behavior,
   but does not necessarily result in violent children. Likewise,
   researchers have found that first person killing video GAME playing is
   associated with increased risk for violent behavior, but not all the
   time. Yet, constant exposure to violence from multiple sources,
   including first person violent video GAME, in the absence of positive
   factors that help to buffer these negative exposures is likely to
   increase the probability that youth will engage in violent behavior.

   Despite disagreements on the exact nature of the relationship between
   violent video GAME playing and violent or aggressive behavior,
   significant evidence exists linking video GAME playing with violent
   behavior and its correlates.  Although we are somewhat agnostic about
   the role of social controls like laws banning the sale of violent video
   GAME to minors, an argument against such social controls based on the
   conclusion  that the video GAME have no effect seems to oversimplify
   the issue. A more in-depth and critical analysis of the issue from
   multiple perspectives may both help more completely understand the
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-33">
<text>
     * Buying Guides for Teachers

   Educational GAME / 5 Interactive GAME about Culture

5 Interactive GAME about Culture
--
   in which students can tap into this valuable resource. Today, I am
   eager to zero in on one specific, and arguably highly effective, method
   - the utilization of GAME-based learning.

   One remarkable feature of Google Arts &amp Culture is its dedicated GAME
   section, designed with the aim to make learning about art and culture
   an enjoyable, interactive experience. This section boasts five distinct
   GAME about culture, each serving as an innovative gateway to an
   educational adventure.

   These GAME serve as brilliant tools to pique curiosity, encourage
   exploration, and deepen understanding about various aspects of art and
   culture. Below, you'll find more details about these cultural GAME.
   But before that, let's first talk about the importance of introducing
   students to GAME about culture.

Importance of GAME about Culture
--
   GAME about culture play a critical role in enhancing students
   educational experience in several key ways:
    1. Engagement and Interest: Incorporating GAME into the learning
       process can significantly increase students' engagement levels. The
       interactive nature of GAME, with their scoring systems, rewards,
       and visual storytelling elements, can make learning about culture a
       fun and exciting experience, thereby stimulating greater interest
--
       learned in practical scenarios. For instance, students might use
       their knowledge of a specific culture to interact with its virtual
       representations in a GAME, thereby reinforcing their understanding.
    4. Empathy and Perspective-taking: Cultural GAME can help students
       step into the shoes of people from other cultures, broadening their
       perspectives and enhancing their empathy. This can foster greater
       cultural sensitivity and respect for diversity.
    5. Memory Retention: The active participation required in GAME can
       help improve memory retention. Information learned in the course of
       gameplay is often better remembered than information delivered in
       more traditional, passive forms of learning.
    6. Cross-Cultural Communication Skills: Many cultural GAME encourage
       communication and collaboration among players. This can enhance
       students' ability to communicate effectively with people from
--
       important in our globally connected world.

   Indeed, GAME about culture provide a valuable tool for students to
   engage with and understand the rich diversity of world cultures. They
   are not just fun to play, but also foster critical skills and values
--
Best GAME about culture from Google Arts &amp Culture

   Here is a list of the best GAME about culture from Google Arts &amp
   Culture:

--
   What Came First What Came First

   An interactive GAME where students pick which comes first. The faster
   students answer, the more points they get. Students are provided with
   two visual prompts and are asked to click on the one that is
--
   Cultural Crosswords Cultural Crosswords

   A GAME which helps students develop their cultural literacy through
   word puzzles. Crosswords are arranged into four main categories: Arts,
   Around the World, Science and Technology, Fashion, and Nature. Students
--
   They can click on  `Learn More' to access more information about the
   artwork in Google Arts &amp Culture. Next, they choose whether they want
   to play the jigsaw GAME solo or with others. For the latter option, a
   unique code is generated to share with others.

--
   Visual Crosswords Visual Crosswords

   This GAME enables students to learn more about arts and culture through
   unexpected pairings. For instance, to learn more about Art Movements,
   students are provided with two columns and are asked to drag artworks
--
   Art Coloring Book Art Coloring Book

   A GAME that lets students color their way `through the palettes of
   famous paintings'. To start playing it, they need to choose an artwork
   then use the provided tools to colour and customize it the way they
--

   From "What Came First" to "Art Coloring Book," each of the featured
   culture GAME has been crafted not just to educate but to captivate,
   turning every click and puzzle piece into a conversation with history
   and culture. Whether through the immediacy of a timed quiz or the
--
   learning that's both intuitive and insightful.

   As students engage with these GAME, they get to broaden their cultural
   horizons and develop invaluable skills like empathy, critical thinking,
   and cross-cultural communication. Indeed, Google Arts &amp Culture is
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-34">
<text>
   [module]

How do you play Monopoly? Setup, rules, instructions, gameplay and how to win
     __________________________________________________________________

--
   outcomes and consequences," according to the Guardian. Since then,
   Monopoly has become a staple and is recognized as the most popular
   board GAME by Guinness World Records.

   From its famous original to various themed incarnations, such as
--
   If you're looking to make bank and have your sights on Boardwalk and
   Park Place, here's what you need to know on how to play Monopoly and
   other information about the GAME.

   Just Curious:  We're here to answer your everyday questions.

What comes in a Monopoly GAME?

   Monopoly can be played with just two or up to eight players. A typical
   Monopoly GAME can last anywhere from 20 minutes to 3 hours, depending
   on how many players.

   To get started, you need a Monopoly board and its corresponding pieces.
   According to Hasbro, each Monopoly GAME set includes:
     * A GAME board
     * Eight tokens
     * 28 title deed cards
--
   use to move around the board.

What are the GAME pieces in Monopoly?

   There are eight tokens, or GAME pieces, used in Monopoly. In the
   standard GAME, the tokens are:
     * Top hat
     * Battle ship
--

   In 2017, the thimble was replaced by the T-Rex after more than 4.3
   million votes were sent in to replace the GAME piece, as well as to
   change the boot and wheelbarrow to a rubber ducky and penguin,
   according to CNN. However, after the "Throwback Token Vote," the T-Rex
--
   the new thimble will hit shelves in fall 2022.

   From chess to Scrabble to Monopoly: 22 of the most popular board GAME
   in the US and the history behind them

How much money do you start with in Monopoly?

   At the start of each GAME, players begin with $1,500 in Monopoly
   money, according to the official GAME instructions. The currency is
   broken down into:
     * Two $500s
--
How to play Monopoly

   To officially start the GAME, each player will roll the pair of dice,
   starting with the banker. Whoever has the highest total will be the
   first player, and the remaining players will rotate to the left.
--
   leaving all other players bankrupt.

   Ms. Monopoly:  Hasbro brings gender pay gap debate to GAME night

Monopoly rules, explained
--
   passes GO, the banker pays them $200. The $200 is paid for every
   complete pass of the board, meaning if a player passes GO twice in a
   GAME, they collect $200 twice, $400 in total.

   If a player passes GO and lands on either the Community Chest or Chance
--
   "free" resting place.

   How to play mahjong: A step by step guide to the GAME.

Understanding Monopoly jail and how to get out
--
   You may land in jail for one of three reasons, according to Monopoly
   rules:
     * Your GAME piece lands on the "Go to Jail" space
     * You draw a card marked "Go to Jail"
     * You roll doubles three times in a row
--

   If your piece lands in the actual Jail space during the course of a
   GAME without being sent there, you are "Just Visiting." There is no
   penalty for this and move forward on your next turn.

--
   sell houses and hotels and collect rents.

--
   If you own all the Title Deed cards of a color group, the owner can
   charge double the rent for unimproved properties. In a standard U.S.
   Monopoly GAME, the color sets and prices are:
     * Brown: Mediterranean Avenue and Baltic Avenue ($60 each)
     * Light Blue: Oriental Avenue and Vermont Avenue ($100 each),
--
How do the houses and hotels work in Monopoly?

   Each Monopoly GAME set comes with 32 houses and 12 hotels which can be
   purchased to place on properties to increase rent.

--

   If you owe another player, give them all your valued items and remove
   yourself from the GAME. Your houses and hotels are turned over to the
   bank and the value of them (one-half the amount paid) is given to the
   creditor. If you have a mortgaged property, the new owner must pay the
--
   to the bank. The banker will then auction off all your property, minus
   the buildings, to the highest bidder. The bankrupt player must remove
   themselves from the GAME. The last player left standing is the winner.
   Facebook Twitter Email
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-35">
<text>

The Association between Video GAME Play and Cognition
                                     Child's hands holding video GAME
                                     controller
                                     Oxford Internet Institute text logo
--

Overview
                                     Video GAME have been a popular form
                                     of entertainment and leisure for
                                     decades and are now the largest
                                     grossing entertainment industry in
                                     the world. At the same time, GAME
                                     are thought to impact a broad range
                                     of human functioning, from subjective
                                     well-being to cognition.
                                     Specifically, some studies have
                                     associated video GAME play with
                                     increased performance in attention
                                     control, working memory, executive
--
                                     abilities.
                                     Because these cognitive abilities
                                     that GAME purportedly affect may
                                     contribute to human functioning more
                                     broadly, such as educational and
--
                                     valid studies.
                                     This project aims to study the
                                     association between video GAME play
                                     and cognition using novel
                                     ecologically valid methods that
                                     improve upon the existing literature
                                     by studying gaming in its natural
                                     context, using actual GAME play data.
                                     We intend to recruit a large
                                     representative sample of gamers from
                                     who would contribute their actual
--
                                     and openly available dataset, on the
                                     real-world association between video
                                     GAME play and cognitive performance.

Key Information
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-36">
<text>

   As the weather warms up and everyone heads outside, be ready to ward
   off all of the "I'm bored" declarations with these 33 fun GAME.

   From active running GAME, to splashing water GAME, to messy GAME
   that will make you glad you have a hose, these activities will suit a
   wide variety of ages. Most just require simple prep and items you may
   already have around the house.

   Whether you're a mom, dad, babysitter, or camp counselor, these GAME
   are sure to bring fun to your child's summer!

--
2. Scooter Races

   All you need for this GAME are some scooter boards and a driveway or
   sidewalk. Let your children race each other while sitting on the
   scooter boards.
--
3. Animal Tag

   Spice up a regular GAME of tag with Animal Tag. Designate one area to
   be the "cage" where players will be sent if they are tagged. Choose one
   child to be "it"; They will be the zookeeper responsible for tagging
--

   For more of a challenge, create different cage areas for each group. Or
   turn it into a GAME of freeze tag and let the monkey unfreeze the other
   players by tagging them.

--
   them King, Queen, Jack, and Baby (you could also just label them 1-4).

   Randomly assign children the squares to start. As the GAME progresses,
   they'll attempt to move into the higher squares. If the "King" is out,
   they either start over at "Baby" or must get in line to wait to get
--
   Bikes are another fun outdoor activity. With trikes, bicycles, and
   adaptive tricycles, most children will have fun riding their bikes
   around the neighborhood. You can add GAME too. Play "How Slow Can You
   Go" with a piece of chalk. Draw out a straight or wavy line and time
   your kids to see who can go the slowest without stopping or needing to
--
6. Sharks and Minnows

   If you've got a group of kids, this GAME is a perfect alternative when
   tag starts to get a bit boring. Designate one or more players to be the
   "shark" they will try to tag the minnows. The rest of the players are
--

   Play continues until only one minnow remains untagged, they become the
   new lead shark. This GAME can also be played in a gym class or in the
   pool.

7. Kick the Can

   All you need for this GAME is an empty can and a group of participants.
   Place the can in a large open area. Choose one player to be "It" who
   should then count to 50 while the other players hide. Then It tries to
--
   hasn't been tagged can try to "kick the can" to set all of the players
   in jail free. When It has all of the players in jail, they win. Whoever
   was in jail the longest becomes the new It and a new GAME starts.

8. Opinion Tag
--
9. Sponge Tennis

   For this GAME, you'll need a balloon and a sponge on a stick. You can
   make your own by using a large sponge, a painter's stick or ruler, and
   tape to wrap around the handle and prevent splinters. Or purchase a
   sponge on a stick for a quicker solution. Children can then bat the
   ball back and forth to play "tennis", add a net to enhance the GAME. Or
   simply attempt to keep the balloon in the air by working together.

   For extra fun, head outside. Fill a bucket with water and dip the
   sponges into it, then play this GAME with wet sponges! A scrub brush
   sponge stick is designed to get wet!

--
11. Sponge Tag

   Easy to set up and tons of fun, all you need for this GAME is a bucket
   of water and a large car wash sponge. Choose one child to be "It". It
   should take the sponge and dunk it in the bucket. Then It chases the
--

   Perfect for cooling down on a hot day, you'll need ice cubes to play
   this GAME. There are two versions of this GAME.

   Version 1: Fill a tub with ice cubes and place an empty tub beside it.
--
13. Over Under Sponge Relay

   For this GAME you'll need two large sponges and two buckets that are
   the same size and two large tubs filled with water. Divide the children
   into two groups and have each group stand in a line. Place the full
--
14. Melt the Ice

   This GAME requires a bit of prep work. But it can be used with a
   variety of ages and played individually or in a group.

--
   and have plenty of fun

   Looking for fun sprinkler GAME? Your children can play ring-around-the
   rosy, hokey pokey freeze dance, and more around the sprinkler.

16. Water Balloon Toss

   This GAME is a lot like an egg toss but the water balloons instead.
   Start by filling several water balloons. Have the children divide into
   pairs and give each pair one water balloon. Have the children start
--
17. Water Limbo

   All you need for this water GAME is a hose. Have an adult hold the hose
   up high with water streaming out of it. Children can take turns
   limboing under the stream. After each round, the adult should lower the
--

   You may want to put down a cheap plastic throw away tarp for these
   GAME.

   Egg Roulette: Fill a bowl with several boiled eggs and one raw egg
--
21. Rainbow Tag

   This fun face paint GAME mixes tag, with capture the flag. You will
   need five tongue depressors, each marked with a color of the rainbow.
   You will also need matching face paint colors. Hide the tongue
--
22. Squirt Gun Painting/Tag

   For these GAME you'll need squirt guns filled with liquid watercolors.

   Squirt Gun Painting: Set up easels with paper or tack paper to a tree.
--
   remains standing that team wins!

   To extend the GAME, play the color wars version. Individually or in
   teams, each child tries to get the others to be as colorful as possible
   (if a child is "hit" they aren't out). The child with the most white
--
Even More GAME

   parachute GAME

23. Parachute GAME

   Mushroom, Popcorn, Cat and Mouse, and so much more. There are plenty of
   GAME to play with a parachute!

   Get started with Popcorn. Divide all of the children into two teams and
--
   their ball color left on the parachute at the end wins!

   Find more parachute GAME to play here!

24. Bean Bag Ladder &amp Hula Blockers

   For these GAME you will need bean bag and a ladder or hula hoop.

   Bean Bag Ladder: Set up a ladder and label each step to be worth a
--
26. Giant GAME

   Twister: Play a giant GAME of twister on the yard. You'll need a
   spinner from a regular GAME of Twister or by creating it yourself. Then
   use four spray paint cans to create a board on the grass and play
   regular Twister. You'll have a fun GAME to play until the grass is
   mowed.

--
27. Sidewalk Chalk Simon

   Have you ever played the electronic Simon GAME? Make it interactive and
   physical with this sidewalk chalk GAME. Create a Simon GAME board out
   of chalk. Form a circle with sections of color.

--
29. Quarter Bounce

   All you need for this simple GAME is a quarter and a bouncy ball. Place
   the quarter in the sidewalk crack. Have one child stand on each square
   and bounce the ball attempting to knock the quarter out. The first
--
30. Marbles

   This classic GAME requires sidewalk chalk, small marbles, and large
   marbles. Use the chalk to draw a three foot diameter circle with a line
   through the center. Each player needs a large marble to use as a
--
   If you don't knock a marble out of the circle, you must leave your
   "shooter" in play. If the other player knocks it out on their turn,
   they win and the GAME ends. Otherwise you may pick it up again on your
   next turn.

--

   Still looking for more ideas? Teach your child some fun traditional
   GAME like:
     * Tag
     * Hide-and-Seek
--
     * Various Sports

   What are you waiting for? Choose a GAME from the list, head outside,
   and start getting active with your kids!

   Ready for more fun outside or indoors? Check out these fun GAME with
   your kids!
     * Fun Gross Motor Activities for Kids from A to Z
--
   Retrieved from https://bit.ly/3d05nd9
   Top 10 Messy Party GAME. (n.d.) Retrieved from https://bit.ly/2Qb28Wr
   Ward, K. (2018). 17 fun outside GAME kids will love playing. Care.
   Retrieved from https://bit.ly/3aSyQ71
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-37">
<text>
   [p?c1=2&ampc2=6035250&ampcv=2.0&ampcj=1&ampcs_ucfr=0&ampcomscorekw=Puzzle+GAME%2CCros
   swords%2CApps%2CTetris%2CGAME%2CLife+and+style%2CCulture] Skip to main
   contentSkip to navigationSkip to navigation
--
     * Stage

   This photo illustration shows a person playing online word GAME
   "Wordle" on a mobile phone
   [ ]
   Many word GAME apps predate Wordle. Photograph: Stefani
   Reynolds/AFP/Getty Images
   Many word GAME apps predate Wordle. Photograph: Stefani
   Reynolds/AFP/Getty Images
   Puzzle GAME

Beyond Wordle: the best word GAME to try next

   Whether you are frustrated by the smash hit puzzle, or hungry for more,
--
   changed? Or are people just losing interest? Since Wordle caught the
   world's attention, there has been a fast-flowing stream of copycats and
   humorous takes on the word-guessing GAME, based on everything from
   swearing (Sweardle) to choral music (Byrdle) to geography (Worldle). If
   you're looking for something different, though, rather than just an
   inventive twist on the same theme, the Android and Apple app stores
   have many other word GAME you can play on your phone. Fans have been
   quietly enjoying some of these for years - some offer a daily five or
   10 minutes of puzzle fun, while others let you sink as much time into
--
   play space. In the puzzle mode, subsequent layers of letters are
   continually added until the pile reaches the top of the screen and the
   GAME ends. It's a unique and compelling test of both your vocabulary
   and your spatial planning skills, and like Wordle it gets you to see
   words as tactical objects as well as units of language.
--
   too many words in one corner you can soon come adrift, and you have to
   make careful use of the premium squares. Scrabble fans will enjoy the
   way the GAME explores word placement strategies, and success unlocks
   the more demanding "precise mode", which requires players to finish on
   a specific square. Not for the faint-hearted.
--
Baba Is You

   As much a logic GAME as a word GAME, this endearingly lo-fi puzzler has
   you shifting words around to change the rules. Unshiftable boulders can
   be pushed aside if you create the sentence ROCK IS MOVE; if there's a
--
Kitty Letter

   In this gently bizarre, free GAME, you unscramble words from a
   hexagonal grid of letters to send little armies of exploding cats
   towards your opponent's house. It's quite frantic, rather than
--
Typeshift

   This is not unlike Wordle - there's a word that the GAME wants you to
   guess, and you have to puzzle it out - but this gives you a slot
   machine wheel of different letters, and you spin each column around
--
   and appealing enough to draw kids into some spelling-related fun.
   Explore more on these topics
     * Puzzle GAME
     * Apps
     * Tetris
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-38">
<text>
   Trending
     * Best board GAME
     * MTG Arena codes
     * Yu-Gi-Oh! Banlist
     * Best Lorcana starter deck

   Dicebreaker Board GAME. For everyone.

     * News
--
     * How To Guides

Board GAME types explained: a beginner's guide to tabletop gaming terms

   How to tell your roll-and-writes from your roll-and-moves.
   Settlers of Catan board GAME gameplay
   Simon Castle avatar
   How To by Simon Castle Contributor
--

   Getting into tabletop gaming as a beginner can be a challenge. From
   knowing the best board GAME, working out what to buy first and finding
   others interested in playing them with you, through to understanding
   the conversation when you meet these peers, there are all sorts of
--
   Board gaming, as one of humanity's oldest hobbies, can be one of the
   most welcoming activities around. You can start anywhere and with
   crack out a party board GAME down the pub, learn how to play Magic: The
   Gathering with an established club, or simply enjoy playing around the
   kitchen table with your friends or even all by yourself thanks to the
   growing number of solo GAME.

   But like everything that a lot of people spend a lot of time on, a
   whole specialist language has built up around board GAME, not least of
   which is the various genres that tabletop GAME get grouped into.
   What's a deckbuilder compared to a deck construction GAME? What makes a
   living card GAME different to a trading card GAME, and is that the same
   as an expandable deck GAME? What do you actually do in a
   worker-placement board GAME?

   Fear not; to help those of you who haven't yet had a proper chance to
   learn your roll-and-writes from your roll-and-moves, Dicebreaker has
   put together the following beginner's guide to the different types of
   board GAME types and what they mean.

   Bear in mind that many of these board GAME types aren't exhaustive or
   exclusive, and many board GAME will fall into more than one of these
   categories - or might be something else entirely. However, the
   following board GAME terms represent the most common types of GAME on
   the tabletop, so they're a good place to start next time you're
   wondering if something really is a EuroGAME, or just happens to have a
   farmer on the cover.
   Shobu abstract strategy board GAME photo Shobu is an example of a
   modern abstract board GAME. | Image credit: Sarah Jarvis

Board GAME types

Abstract

   Board GAME with no theme at all, or what theme is offered is so
   disconnected from the actual experience of playing that it might as
   well not be there. Draughts and Go are the purest examples of
--
Area control

   Board GAME with some form of map or board defining a space that
   players compete to dominate, usually through adding their own pieces to
   regions or areas or removing opponents' pieces. Sometimes the control
--
Campaign/legacy

   Campaign board GAME are defined by individual plays following a series
   of connected scenarios, where the actions and outcome of one scenario
   will usually affect the next. Legacy board GAME are a specific type of
   campaign GAME where your choices and actions cause you to make
   permanent (often physical) changes to the GAME and its components, such
   as applying stickers to the board or tearing up cards, often providing
   a one-time experience.
--
   it during play, with more powerful cards being added to the deck and
   less powerful ones removed. Deckbuilders are sometimes conflated with
   deck construction GAME such as trading card GAME, with the difference
   being that in deckbuilders the act of creating and customising your
   deck is part of the core gameplay experience, instead of something that
   usually happens away from the table between plays.

--
Deck construction

   A type of board GAME where the players use different decks of cards to
   play, constructed prior to the GAME from a large pool of options,
   according to specific rules. There are two main distribution models:
   trading or collectible card GAME sell booster pack products with a
   randomised set of cards in each, while living card GAME and expandable
   deck GAME provide a fixed set of cards in each expansion. (Living card
   GAME applies specifically to such GAME produced by Fantasy Flight
   GAME, which has trademarked the term.)

--
Dexterity

   Board GAME involving physical skill, whether using the whole body as
   in Twister or just the fingers for moving things about, as with
   removing blocks in Jenga. This can include flicking discs or other
   objects with your fingers like Flick `em Up, balancing things in GAME
   such as Beasts of Balance or even throwing objects around, like Dungeon
   Fighter.
--
   selection may be made from a shared central pool of choices, or from a
   hand of cards passed between players. This can be a small part of a
   GAME, such as selecting an ability for use during a round, or the
   entire decision space for a GAME.

   Examples: 7 Wonders, Sushi Go!, Villagers.
--
   location, often depicted by a map with a square grid or a page in a
   book, defeating enemies controlled by another player, a companion app
   or the GAME system itself.

   Examples: Gloomhaven, Mansions of Madness, Star Wars: Imperial Assault,
--
Engine-builder

   Over the course of an engine-building board GAME, you'll build an
   "engine": something that takes your starting resources and/or actions
   and turns them into more resources, which turn into even more
--
   Examples: Res Arcana, Century: Spice Road, Race for the Galaxy.

EuroGAME

   Often shortened to just `Euro', these are strategy-focused board GAME
   that prioritise limited-randomness over theme. Usually competitive with
   interaction between players through passive competition rather than
   aggressive conflict. Named for the fact many of the early GAME of this
   style were developed in Europe - particularly Germany - in contrast to
   the more thematic but chance-driven "American-style" GAME of the time.
   (Sometimes referred to as 'Ameritrash' by those who dislike the high
   luck element.)

   Examples: Agricola, Paladins of the West Kingdom.
   The Quacks of Quedlinburg board GAME box and components The Quacks of
   Quedlinburg - a GAME in which pushing your luck leads to victory (or
   everything blowing up in your face).

Push-your-luck

   Board GAME that invite you to take ever bigger risks to achieve
   increasingly valuable rewards - or to decide to keep what you've got
   before you lose everything. Think the card GAME blackjack or deciding
   whether to give an uncertain answer on Who Wants to be a Millionaire?
   Sometimes also called press-your-luck.
--
Roll-and-move

   Board GAME where you roll one or more dice and move that many spaces -
   commonly on a looping track of spaces, or a path with a start and
   finish. Often landing on certain spaces will trigger specific actions
   or offer the player certain gameplay options. Simple as that.

   Examples: Monopoly, The GAME of Life, Snakes and Ladders, Formula D.
--
   Roll some dice and decide how to use the outcome, writing it into a
   personal scoring sheet. Each decision impacts your options for the rest
   of the GAME, so even in GAME where everyone uses the same dice,
   slightly different choices at the start can lead to very different end
   results. Some GAME twist the name by replacing the dice with something
   like cards for a `flip-and-write' (Welcome To...) or the writing with
   something like placing miniatures for a `roll-and-build' (Era: Medieval
--
Storytelling

   Board GAME with a focus on narrative and description that is directed
   or fully created by the players. This could be an overarching story
   lasting the whole GAME - or across a campaign of multiple sessions -
   read from pre-written passages, or a sequence of vignettes as players
   are tasked with inventing and describing something prompted by a single
--
Worker-placement

   Board GAME where you choose actions from spaces on the board by
   assigning your pool of "workers" - often thematically actual workers in
   your employ - to them. Usually EuroGAME, with player interaction
   created because actions one player has taken often can't be taken by or
   come with a cost for anyone else.
--
   Examples: Charterstone, Agricola, Caverna, Lords of Waterdeep.

WarGAME

   Players pit armies against each other, represented by collections of
--
   Examples: Warhammer 40,000, Memoir `44, Risk, Axis &amp Allies.

   Dicebreaker is the home for friendly board GAME lovers

   We welcome board gamers of all levels, so sign in and join our
   community!
   Sign in with Google Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Twitter Sign in
--

   Related topics
   Beginner Board GAME EuroGAME
   About the Author
   Simon Castle avatar
--
     *

   Simon has been playing board GAME since Talisman and its expansions
   filled his bedroom floor as a kid. While his preferred GAME these days
   are a bit more strategic, some take up even more space. He has
   playtested expansions for Tash-Kalar and Trickerion, and once made the
--
   Dicebreaker

   Board GAME. For everyone.
   ____________________

--
   ReedPop
     * Digital Foundry
     * Eurogamer
     * GAMEIndustry.biz
     * Jelly Deals
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-39">
<text>
   Photo-Illustration: The Strategist; Photos: Retailers

   Board GAME are a great way to break the ice, whether you're at a party
   or hosting a get-together with folks you haven't seen in a while. But
   with so many options available -- from strategy board GAME to social
   ones that require singing or drawing -- it can be hard to find the
   right one for you and your friends. So while we've written about board
   GAME before -- including the best two-player board GAME, best family
   board GAME, and best board GAME for kids -- here, I've rounded up the
   24 best board GAME for adults, according to fellow Strategist
   staffers, contributors, and a variety of people who play them all the
   time.

Best overall party board GAME for adults

   Just One
--
   From $48

   "Hands down, Just One is our favorite new party GAME," says Kelsey
   Demers, who runs the board-GAME blog the Tabletop Family. "It's simple
   to play, a breeze to teach, and utterly addictive." Word-association
   GAME are a great choice to play with friends in larger groups because
   they are "full of inside-joke possibilities and they let you make new
   memories by reliving old ones," explains Meeple Mountain founder Andy
--
   Buy

Best strategy GAME for adults

   Amigo 'Saboteur' Strategy Card GAME
--

   "The premise of Saboteur, an inexpensive, whimsically mining-themed
   GAME designed by Frederic Moyersoen and produced by German GAME
   company Amigo, is relatively simple: Players work toward a shared goal,
   but some of their number -- the saboteurs -- are secretly working
   against the majority, the miners," explains Strategist writer Erin
   Schwartz, who compares it to similar GAME like Mafia and Among Us.
   "Although Saboteur is a tabletop GAME, the basic unit of play is the
   same, which is talking to your friends to figure out who's working
   against the group." While the GAME can be played with as few as three,
   Schwartz finds its best for larger groups of five or more players, to
   keep things interesting. The GAME scales well to groups of different
   skill level and competitiveness, they add. "But with a group of
   seasoned liars and scammers, it can get downright Machiavellian with
--
   Buy

Best beginner strategy GAME for adults

   Ticket to Ride
--
   $27

   If you're looking for a more entry-level strategy GAME, Ticket to Ride
   is an adventure-style GAME in which players attempt to cross the
   country and connect cities by building train routes. It is easy to pick
   up "but also offers a level of strategy and tactics just deep enough
   for competitive gamers to return to time and again," says Ian Ross, who
   runs the popular Instagram page Board GAME As Art.
   $27 at Amazon
--
   Buy

Best fast-paced strategy board GAME for adults

   Raccoon Tycoon
--
   $23

   Strategist senior writer Liza Corsillo discovered this GAME by way of
   her "strategy-GAME connoisseur" brother and it quickly became a family
   GAME-night staple. According to Corsillo, Raccoon Tycoon combines the
   fast play of Ticket to Ride with the social interaction of Settlers of
   Catan, "but is more engaging and fun to look at." Like Ticket to Ride,
   a player will win the GAME by collecting the most points, "but there
   are multiple ways to earn them -- amassing wealth and owning railroads,
   towns, or buildings -- so it's harder to get bored." Corsillo also
--
   Buy

Best adult board GAME for pop-culture fans

   Monikers
--
   $25

   "Based on the classic parlor GAME Celebrity, Monikers is a silly social
   affair for four to 20 friends," says Dylan Speed of Meeple Mountain.
   Players give clues to teammates, hoping they'll guess what's on the
--
   Buy

Best word-association board GAME for adults

   Codenames
--
   Buy

Best drawing-focused board GAME for adults

   Telestrations
--
   $15

   "This is my favorite party GAME when mixing kids and adults," says
   Scott Cooper, owner of Seattle-based Blue Highway GAME. A cross
   between Pictionary and telephone, each player attempts to draw the
--
   guess what has been drawn on the dry-erase board. Everyone then passes
   their guess -- which ideally matches the previous player's word -- to
   the next player, who is then tasked with drawing it. The GAME is
   finished once all of the boards have been returned to their original
   player. According to Dr. Michael James Heron of Meeple Like Us, a
   board-GAME-review site with a focus on accessibility, "It plays really
   quickly, has everyone laughing all of the time, and likely won't
   provoke a single argument." Kurt Refling of Meeple Mountain agrees:
--
   Buy

Best adult board GAME for Wordle fans

   'Wordle The Party GAME'
--
   $13

   Corsillo is also a fan of the board-GAME edition of Wordle. Designed
   with two players in mind, Wordle comes with 120 pages of blank grids so
   you can make up your own words while trying to stump your opponent,
--
   Buy

Best adult board GAME for Solitaire fans

   Dutch Blitz
--
   Strategist contributor Lauren Guidry loves Dutch Blitz, which has been
   described as a kind of "very energetic solitaire." Guidry calls the
   dopamine hit from a quick GAME "euphoric," and says she'll often
   persuade her husband to play a few hands between meetings when they are
   working from home together. Dutch Blitz can also be played solo.
--
   Buy

Best adult board GAME for GAME night

   'Wavelength' GAME
--
   $31

   The party GAME we recommended as a gift for a "34-year-old neurosurgeon
   son who is into Magic: The Gathering." The GAME is suitable for up to
   12 players and takes around a half hour to play. Players are split into
   two teams, with one player designated as the "psychic." The team must
--
   Buy

Best illustrated board GAME for adults

   Stonemaier GAME `Wingspan' Board GAME
--

   As our friends over at Vulture put it: "I can't think of the last time
   a new board GAME received the kind of widespread acclaim and mainstream
   attention as Wingspan, a GAME about birds and bird-watching that truly
   integrates its theme into gameplay and features beautiful artwork." The
   GAME incorporates over 150 species of birds and asks players to collect
   the best birds to add to your aviary. It's also a favorite among actual
   birders for its attention to detail and beautiful illustrations.
--
   Buy

Best fast-paced card GAME for adults

   Bohnanza
--
   $20

   Strategist writer Lauren Ro, who admits she finds most board GAME
   "needlessly complicated and mind-numbingly boring," says Bohnanza
   converted her from a GAME skeptic to an enthusiast. "It's fun. It's
   fast. The artwork is delightful. Best of all, it's easy to learn, even
   for a dolt like me." The concept is simple enough: Each player is a
   bean farmer who plants different varieties of beans; players harvest
   their crops in exchange for gold, and the more beans you harvest, the
   more coins you collect. However, the GAME dictates that you play with a
   fixed hand, meaning you have to play it in the order the cards were
   dealt or drawn, which makes things a bit more complicated since your
   hand dictates which bean you can plant in each field at each turn.
   Players must then barter with one another to trade beans, which adds
   elements of strategy and negotiation to the gameplay. "I didn't think I
   could ever love a GAME, but this is the only one I actually look
   forward to playing and introducing to friends when there are four or
   more adults in my home," Ro says.
--
   Buy

Best push-your-luck-style board GAME for adults

   The Quacks of Quedlinburg
--
   $50

   The Quacks of Quedlinburg is one of board-GAME enthusiast and
   Cartamundi tabletop GAME ambassador Sean Amdisen-Cooke's "all-time
   favorite GAME" to play. "It's a push-your-luck-style GAME where
   players draw blindly from their ingredient bags," he says. Some
   ingredients will help you gain points and coins which you then spend on
--
   Buy

Best beginner campaign-style GAME for adults

   Charterstone
--
   $52

   "Charterstone is a campaign-style GAME in which, over the course of 12
   GAME, you'll build and expand a village shared by you and your
   opponents by constructing buildings and unlocking new elements with
   each play," says Demers. "Consider it the board-GAME equivalent of a
   Netflix binge," she adds, because you won't be able to stop playing the
   GAME once you start. The branching storyline slowly grows more
   complicated, and by the end, after you've completed your 12-GAME
   campaign, "you will have a unique-to-you board GAME you can play again
   and again."
   $52 at Amazon
--
   Buy

Best cooperative board GAME for adults

   Pandemic
--
   If you find battling a fictional pandemic soothing compared with living
   through one, Pandemic, Greg May, owner of the Uncommons and Hex &amp
   Company, calls it a "stellar cooperative GAME." The main objective is
   for players to work together to stop the spread of four diseases and
   save the world. "This is considered a modern classic because it has a
   simple set of rules, it has a theme everyone can get into, and it is
   highly replayable," adds Ronny Alexander of the cooperative board-GAME
   review site Co-op Board GAME.
   $22 at Amazon
   Buy

Best easy-to-learn board GAME for adults

   Cascadia
--
   $30

   If you're looking for a "quick, snappy" GAME that is easy to pick up,
   but "still has a bit of substance to it," board-GAME blogger Eric Yurko
   suggests Cascadia. The goal of the GAME is to create a Pacific
   Northwest ecosystem by collecting different animals. And Yurko has one
   word to describe the work of GAME designer Randy Flynn: "exceptional."
   $30 at Amazon
   Buy
--
   Buy

Best tile-placement GAME for adults

   Z-Man GAME Carcassonne Board GAME
--

   According to Yurko, Carcassonne is a "classic," which asks players to
   build cities, roads, and farms. While the gameplay is "very simple,"
   the complexity and fun come from its numerous expansions, making it a
   GAME you can play for years to come.
   $23 at Amazon
   Buy
--
   Buy

Best adult board GAME for two players

   Patchwork
--
   $28

   Patchwork, created by accomplished GAME designer Uwe Rosenberg, is one
   of the best two-player GAME for beginners. The GAME challenges players
   to strategically collect different pieces to create a quilt. May calls
   it "the perfect GAME for couples" that is sure to delight "fans of
   Blokus or Tetris." Cooper adds that although the rules are simple to
   understand and it only takes about 15 minutes to play, the "subtle
--
   Buy

Best story-telling GAME for adults

   Dixit
--
   $34

   Walsh also loves the party GAME Dixit, which he describes as "a great
   icebreaker of a GAME, fantastic for getting everyone interacting." It
   begins with one player being designated the storyteller; that player
   makes up a sentence based on the image on one of the cards in their
--
   Buy

Best resource-management GAME for adults

   7 Wonders
--

   Another popular option is 7 Wonders, "a trading and resource-management
   GAME in which players build up their architectural wonder across three
   ages of time," explains Lee. "Efficiently building your civilization's
   commercial routes, military, or technology can give you an edge in the
--
   Buy

Best immersive board GAME

   Parks
--
   System of America." Players take on the role of hikers as they navigate
   different trails, collecting memories of the different places they
   visit. The GAME is played in four rounds, each one representing one of
   the seasons with the trail tiles being rearranged before players begin
   the next round. The GAME features 48 unique illustrations from over 35
   artists, as well as 102 color-coded wood tokens that feature 12
   delicately carved animals native to the country's parks.
--
   Buy

Best advanced board GAME

   Scythe
--
   fantastical art and beautiful miniatures," says May. Scythe takes place
   in a post-WWI dystopia where players have to vie for resources and
   land. Since the rules are complicated and the gameplay long, it's a
   good option for serious gamers who are looking for a GAME to go on for
   hours.
   $64 at Amazon
--
   Buy

Best replayable card GAME

   The Mind
--
   $7

   "This small card GAME is unlike anything else out there right now,"
   promises Alexander. The gameplay seems simple: You have to work
   together to play cards in ascending order. The twist? No one can talk
   about the cards in their hands. Because of this surprise element, the
   GAME has lots of potential for replaying. Alexander says, "There are
   plenty of exciting moments in every GAME of The Mind."
   $7 at Amazon
   Buy
--
   Buy

Best role-playing GAME

   Arkham Horror Card GAME
--
   Arkham Horror is "a rich storytelling experience filled with unique
   encounters, secrets to uncover, and a campaign that unfolds whether you
   win or lose," according to board-GAME designer Rob Sparks, who calls it
   "a great GAME to get lost in with a buddy." It blends together a
   traditional card GAME with role-playing elements as players take on the
   roles of two investigators -- each with their own set of strengths and
   weaknesses -- who attempt to solve the GAME's mysteries. "This
   experience of mystery and horror is totally worth your attention," he
   promises.
--

     * the strategist
     * toys and GAME
     * ask a cool person
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-40">
<text>
The Importance of Rules in GAME

   Whether you follow the rules that came with the GAME or make up your
   own rules, be sure that everyone agrees to them before the GAME begins.
     * facebook share icon
     * pin
--
   proceed with your next course of action.

   Rules, rules, rules! A GAME is only as good as its rules, and how well
   we play the GAME is defined by how well we follow the rules. What is so
   fascinating about many of the GAME we play today is that there are
   often no instruction books included--yet we somehow know how to play
   them anyway. We learn from family, friends, teachers, and coaches.

   In this article, we will take a look at why rules are important and how
   they can make playing GAME more enjoyable. It doesn't matter if you
   follow the rules that the GAME came with or if you make up your own
   rules; it really just matters that everyone agrees on what the rules
   are. We'll take a look at how to avoid trouble and keep the peace, be a
   good winner and a good loser, and how you can settle arguments that
   arise in the course of playing your GAME. By being clear on the rules
   of the GAME, you're sure to maximize your fun at all times!

Setting the Rules

   When I was a kid, we used to play a schoolyard GAME called
   Champ--otherwise known as Four Square. It was played in one large
   square, which was painted on the ground in our schoolyard. This square
--

   One person is the "Champ" and stands in the Champ's square. How you
   determine who becomes the Champ for the first GAME is up to the
   players. Here's some ideas for choosing a champ: You can flip a coin,
   pull straws, pick a number from one to ten and have the players guess
   it, or go alphabetically by first initial of first name. In our GAME,
   the Champ was the Champ until beaten by another player.

--
   of your hand. If you hit the ball outside the line, you are out and
   someone else takes your place in the square. The object is to get the
   Champ knocked out of the GAME, so you can move into the Champ's square.
   The Champ always goes first and has certain advantages over the other
   players in terms of scoring points and getting other players out. If
--
   all its privileges and advantages.

   The most interesting thing that I remember about this GAME is that
   there was always at least one kid who knew the rules--and we made up
   many new rules as we went along. Sometimes the new rules stuck, and
   were passed on to the next group of kids. The rules were always
   announced at the beginning of recess and the GAME went on through
   recess. Sometimes we'd pick up where we left off the day before--we'd
   even mark our places in the waiting line. There was always a line;
--
   draw the Champ grid on the pavement outside your house.

   When you decide to play any GAME, it's important to establish the rules
   in advance. Most board GAME come with their own instruction books, so
   that's easy enough. Read the rules aloud and discuss them as you go
   along so everyone knows what to expect when the GAME begins. There are
   many GAME that are passed down to us that have no written
   instructions. This book will help clear up the confusion on these
   GAME, so read on, and then read out loud.

   Setting the rules and getting everyone to agree on the rules is the
--
   make sure that everyone is clear on what the rule changes are. That's
   the way to fair play. If you're a frequent player, keep a log of the
   rules handy, and add to this log as you redefine the GAME with new
   rules.
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-41">
<text>
    1. Describe gaming culture and how it has influenced mainstream
       culture.
    2. Analyze the ways video GAME have affected other forms of media.
    3. Describe how video GAME can be used for educational purposes.
    4. Identify the arguments for and against the depiction of video GAME
       as an art.

   An NPD poll conducted in 2007 found that 72 percent of the U.S.
   population had played a video GAME that year (Faylor, 2008). The
   increasing number of people playing video GAME means that video GAME
   are having an undeniable effect on culture. This effect is clearly
   visible in the increasing mainstream acceptance of aspects of gaming
   culture. Video GAME have also changed the way that many other forms of
   media, from music to film, are produced and consumed. Education has
   also been changed by video GAME through the use of new technologies
   that help teachers and students communicate in new ways through
   educational GAME such as Brain Age. As video GAME have an increasing
   influence on our culture, many have voiced their opinions on whether
   this form of media should be considered an art.
--
GAME Culture

   To fully understand the effects of video GAME on mainstream culture,
   it is important to understand the development of gaming culture, or the
   culture surrounding video GAME. Video GAME, like books or movies,
   have avid users who have made this form of media central to their
   lives. In the early 1970s, programmers got together in groups to play
   Spacewar!, spending a great deal of time competing in a GAME that was
   rudimentary compared to modern GAME (Brand). As video arcades and home
   video GAME consoles gained in popularity, youth culture quickly adapted
   to this type of media, engaging in competitions to gain high scores and
   spending hours at the arcade or with the home console.

   In the 1980s, an increasing number of kids were spending time on
   consoles playing GAME and, more importantly, increasingly identifying
   with the characters and products associated with the GAME. Saturday
   morning cartoons were made out of the Pac-Man and Super Mario Bros.
   GAME, and an array of nonGAME merchandise was sold with video GAME
   logos and characters. The public recognition of some of these
   characters has made them into cultural icons. A poll taken in 2007
--

   As the kids who first played Super Mario Bros. began to outgrow video
   GAME, companies such as Sega, and later Sony and Microsoft, began
   making GAME to appeal to older demographics. This has increased the
   average age of video GAME players, which was 35 in 2009 (Entertainment
   Software Association, 2009). The Nintendo Wii has even found a new
   demographic in retirement communities, where Wii Bowling has become a
   popular form of entertainment for the residents (Wischnowsky). The
   gradual increase in gaming age has led to an acceptance of video GAME
   as an acceptable form of mainstream entertainment.

The Subculture of Geeks

   The acceptance of video GAME in mainstream culture has consequently
   changed the way that the culture views certain people. "Geek" was the
   name given to people who were adept at technology but lacking in the
--
   ability. Many of these people, because they often did not fare well in
   society, favored imaginary worlds such as those found in the fantasy
   and science fiction genres. Video GAME were appealing because they
   were both a fantasy world and a means to excel at something. Jim
   Rossignol, in his 2008 book This Gaming Life: Travels in Three Cities,
--
   team (Rossignol, 2008).

   Video GAME gave a group of excluded people a way to gain proficiency
   in the social realm. As video GAME became more of a mainstream
   phenomenon and video GAME skills began to be desired by a large number
   of people, the popular idea of geeks changed. It is now common to see
   the term "geek" used to mean a person who understands computers and
--
   "cooler," but mainstream culture has also become "geekier." The
   acceptance of geek culture has led to acceptance of geek aesthetics.
   The mainstreaming of video GAME has led to acceptance of fantasy or
   virtual worlds. This is evident in the popularity of film/book series
   such as The Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter. Comic book characters,
--
   virtual world has come to appeal to greater numbers of people. Virtual
   worlds such as those represented in the Grand Theft Auto and Halo
   series and online GAME such as World of Warcraft have expanded the
   idea of virtual worlds so that they are not mere means of escape but
   new ways to interact (Konzack, 2006).
--
The Effects of Video GAME on Other Types of Media

   Video GAME during the 1970s and '80s were often derivatives of other
   forms of media. E.T., Star Wars, and a number of other GAME took their
   cues from movies, television shows, and books. This began to change in
   the 1980s with the development of cartoons based on video GAME, and in
   the 1990s and 2000s with live-action feature films based on video
   GAME.

Television

   Television programs based on video GAME were an early phenomenon.
   Pac-Man, Pole Position, and Q*bert were among the animated programs
   that aired in the early 1980s. In the later 1980s, shows such as The
   Super Mario Bros. Super Show! and The Legend of Zelda promoted Nintendo
   Nintendo GAME Boy, was turned into a television series, a card GAME,
   several movies, and even a musical (Internet Movie Database). Recently,
   several programs have been developed that revolve entirely around video
   GAME--the web series The Guild, for instance, tells the story of a
   group of friends who interact through an unspecified MMORPG.

   Nielsen, the company that tabulates television ratings, has begun
   rating video GAME in a similar fashion. In 2010, this information
   showed that video GAME, as a whole, could be considered a kind of
   fifth network, along with the television networks NBC, ABC, CBS, and
   Fox (Shields, 2009). Advertisers use Nielsen ratings to decide which
   programs to support. The use of this system is changing public
   perceptions to include video GAME playing as a habit similar to
   television watching.

   Video GAME have also influenced the way that television is produced.
   The Rocket Racing League, scheduled to be launched in 2011, will
   feature a "virtual racetrack." Racing jets will travel along a virtual
--
   real time (Hadhazy, 2010). This type of innovation is only possible
   with a public that has come to demand and rely on the kind of
   interactivity that video GAME provide.

Film

   The rise in film adaptations of video GAME accompanies the increased
   age of video GAME users. In 1995, Mortal Kombat, a live-action movie
   based on the video GAME, grossed over $70 million at the box office,
   placing it 22nd in the rankings for that year (Box Office Mojo). Lara
   Croft: Tomb Raider, released in 2001, starred well-known actress
   Angelina Jolie and ranked No. 1 at the box office when it was released,
   and 15th overall for the year (Box Office Mojo). Films based on video
   GAME are an increasingly common sight at the box office, such as
   producer Jerry Bruckheimer's Prince of Persia, or the recent sequel to
   Tron, based on the idea of a virtual gaming arena.

   Another aspect of video GAME' influence on films is how video GAME
   releases are marketed and perceived. The release date for anticipated
   GAME Grand Theft Auto IV was announced and marketed to compete with the
   release of the film Iron Man. Grand Theft Auto IV supposedly beat Iron
   Man by $300 million in sales. This kind of comparison is, in some ways,
   misleading. Video GAME cost much more than a ticket to a movie, so
   higher sales does not mean that more people bought the GAME than the
   movie. Also, the distribution apparatus for the two media is totally
   different. Movies can only be released in theaters, whereas video GAME
   can be sold at any retail outlet (Associated Press, 2008). What this
   kind of news story proves, however, is that the general public
   considers video GAME as something akin to a film. It is also important
   to realize that the scale of production and profit for video GAME is
   similar to that of films. Video GAME include music scores, actors, and
   directors in addition to the GAME designers, and the budgets for major
   GAME reflect this. Grand Theft Auto IV cost an estimated $100 million
   to produce (Bowditch, 2008).

Music

   Video GAME have been accompanied by music ever since the days of the
   arcade. Video GAME music was originally limited to computer beeps
   turned into theme songs. The design of the Nintendo 64, Sega Saturn,
   and Sony PlayStation made it possible to use sampled audio on new
   GAME, meaning songs played on physical instruments could be recorded
   and used on video GAME. Beginning with the music of the Final Fantasy
   series, scored by famed composer Nobuo Uematsu, video GAME music took
   on film score quality, complete with full orchestral and vocal tracks.
   This innovation proved beneficial to the music industry. Well-known
   musicians such as Trent Reznor, Thomas Dolby, Steve Vai, and Joe
   Satriani were able to create the soundtracks for popular GAME, giving
   these artists exposure to new generations of potential fans (Video
   GAME Music Big Hit, 1997). Composing music for video GAME has turned
   into a profitable means of employment for many musicians. Schools such
   as Berklee College of Music, Yale, and New York University have
   programs that focus on composing music for video GAME. The students
   are taught many of the same principles that are involved in film
   scoring (Khan, 2010).

   Many rock bands have allowed their previously recorded songs to be used
   in video GAME, similar to a hit song being used on a movie soundtrack.
   The bands are paid for the rights to use the song, and their music is
   exposed to an audience that otherwise might not hear it. As mentioned
   earlier, GAME like Rock Band and Guitar Hero have been used to promote
   bands. The release of The Beatles: Rock Band was timed to coincide with
   the release of digitally remastered reissues of the Beatles' albums.

   Another phenomenon relating to music and video GAME involves musicians
   covering video GAME music. A number of bands perform only video GAME
   covers in a variety of styles, such as the popular Japanese group the
   Black Mages, which performs rock versions of Final Fantasy music.
   Playing video GAME themes is not limited to rock bands, however. An
   orchestra and chorus called Video GAME Live started a tour in 2005
   dedicated to playing well-known video GAME music. Their performances
   are often accompanied by graphics projected onto a screen showing
   relevant sequences from the video GAME (Play Symphony).

Machinima

   Recently, the connection between video GAME and other media has
   increased with the popularity of machinima, animated films and series
   created by recording character actions inside video GAME. Beginning
   with the short film "Diary of a Camper," filmed inside the GAME Quake
   in 1996, fans of video GAME have adopted the technique of machinima to
   tell their own stories. Although these early movies were released only
   online and targeted a select niche of gamers, professional filmmakers
   have since adopted the process, using machinima to storyboard scenes
   and to add a sense of individuality to computer-generated shots. This
--
   image

   Figure 10.7 Educational video GAME have proven to be useful tools for
   educators.

   One sign of the mainstreaming of video GAME is the increase of
   educational institutions that embrace them. As early as the 1980s,
   GAME such as Number Munchers and Word Munchers were designed to help
   children develop basic math and grammar skills. In 2006, the Federation
   of American Scientists completed a study that approved of video GAME
   use in education. The study cited the fact that video GAME systems were
   present in most households, kids favored learning through video GAME,
   and GAME could be used to facilitate analytical skills (Feller, 2006).
   Another study, published in the science journal Nature in 2002, found
   that regular video GAME players had better developed visual-processing
   skills than people who did not play video GAME. Participants in the
   test were asked to play a first-person shooter GAME for 1 hour a day
   for 10 days, and were then tested for specific visual attention skills.
   The playing improved these skills in all participants, but the regular
   video GAME players had a greater skill level than the non-GAME players.
   According to the study, "Although video-GAME playing may seem to be
   rather mindless, it is capable of radically altering visual attention
   processing (Green &amp Bavelier, 2003)."

   Other educational institutions have begun to embrace video GAME as
   well. The Boy Scouts of America have created a "belt loop," something
   akin to a merit badge, for tasks including learning to play a
   parent-approved GAME and developing a schedule to balance video GAME
   time with homework (Murphy, 2010). The federal government has also seen
   the educational potential of video GAME. A commission on balancing the
   federal budget suggested a video GAME that would educate Americans
   about the necessary costs of balancing the federal budget (Wolf, 2010).
   The military has similarly embraced video GAME as training simulators
   for new soldiers. These simulators, working off of newer GAME
   technologies, present several different realistic options that soldiers
   could face on the field. The GAME have also been used as recruiting
   tools by the U.S. Army and the Army National Guard (Associated Press,
   2003).

   The ultimate effect of video GAME use for education, whether in schools
   or in the public arena, means that video GAME have been validated by
   established cultural authorities. Many individuals still resist the
   idea that video GAME can be beneficial or have a positive cultural
   influence, but their embrace by educational institutions has given
   video GAME validation.

Video GAME as Art

   While universally accepted as a form of media, a debate has recently
   arisen over whether video GAME can be considered a form of art. Roger
   Ebert, the well-known film critic, has historically argued that "video
   GAME can never be art," citing the fact that video GAME are meant to
   be won, whereas art is meant to be experienced (Ebert, 2010).

   His remarks have generated an outcry from both video gamers and
   developers. Many point to GAME such as 2009's Flower, in which players
   control the flow of flower petals in the wind, as examples of video
   GAME developing into art. Flower avoids specific plot and characters
   to allow the player to focus on interaction with the landscape and the
   emotion of the GAME-play (That GAME Company). Likewise, more mainstream
   GAME such as the popular Katamari series, released in 2004, are built
   around the idea of creation, requiring players to pull together a
   massive clump of objects in order to create a star.

   Video GAME, once viewed as a mindless source of entertainment, are now
   being featured in publications such as The New Yorker magazine and The
   New York Times (Fisher, 2010). With the development of increasingly
   complex musical scores and the advent of machinima, the boundaries
   between video GAME and other forms of media are slowly blurring. While
   they may not be considered art by everyone, video GAME have
   contributed significantly to modern artistic culture.

--
       comfort with virtual worlds and the pursuit of new means of
       interaction.
     * Video GAME have gone from being a derivative medium that took its
       cues from other media, such as books, films, and music, to being a
       form of media that other types derive new ideas from. Video GAME
       have also interacted with older forms of media to change them and
       create new means of entertainment and interaction.
     * Educational institutions have embraced the use of video GAME as
       valuable tools for teaching. These tools include simulated worlds
       in which important life skills can be learned and improved.
     * While video GAME may not be accepted by everyone as a form of art,
       there is no doubt that they contribute greatly to artistic media
       such as music and film.
--
Exercises

   Think about the ways in which video GAME have influenced and affected
   other forms of media. Then consider the following questions:
    1. Are there things video GAME will never be able to offer?
    2. Write down several examples of ways in which other forms of media
       are not replicated by video GAME. Then speculate on ways video
       GAME could eventually emulate these forms.

References
--
   Ebert, Roger. "Video GAME Can Never Be Art," Chicago Sun-Times, April
   16, 2010,
   http://blogs.suntimes.com/ebert/2010/04/video_GAME_can_never_be_art.ht
   ml.

--
   Hadhazy, Adam. "'NASCAR of the Skies' to Feature Video GAME-Like
   Interactivity," TechNewsDaily, April 26, 2010,
   http://www.technewsdaily.com/nascar-of-the-skies-to-feature-video-GAME-
   like-interactivity-0475/.

--
   Video GAME," Boston Globe, January 19, 2010,
   http://www.boston.com/news/education/higher/articles/2010/01/19/berklee
   _is_teaching_students_to_compose_scores_for_video_GAME/.

   Konzack, Lars. "Geek Culture: The 3rd Counter-Culture," (paper,
--
   http://entertainment.howstuffworks.com/machinima3.htm.

   That GAME Company, "Flower," http://thatgamecompany.com/GAME/flower/.

   Video GAME Music Big Hit, "Video GAME Music Big Hit," Wilmington (NC)
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-42">
<text>
   I Refuse Agree

   graphic showing two video GAME characters playing soccer to illustrate
   in-GAME advertising

   Digital Advertising Trends  |  August 25, 2022July 11, 2023
--
   Erin Hynes

   There will be 179.6 million monthly gamers in the US this year--meaning
   more than half of the US population will identify as digital gamers by
   the end of 2022.

   Gamers are now nearly synonymous with everyday consumers, and it's time
   for advertisers to pay attention. Advertising in video GAME, also
   known as in-GAME advertising, will help you tap into a growing and
   engaged audience.

   This upward trend points to the growing opportunity to reach engaged
   audiences through video GAME ads. In-GAME advertising leverages
   programmatic to enable ads to appear in mobile, computer, and video
   GAME. With blended in-GAME, ads are seamlessly integrated, so they
   don't interrupt gameplay.

What Are In-GAME Ads

   Blended in-GAME ads appear on in-GAME objects such as billboards,
   walls, jerseys, and more during gameplay. The goal of blended in-GAME
   advertising is to insert ads that get noticed while not interrupting
   the player's enjoyment of the GAME.

   They are non-intrusive, highly-viewable and drive high brand recall.
   Blended in-GAME ads can be delivered through programmatic advertising
   on gaming consoles, mobile devices, or on PCs.

   Blended in-GAME inventory can be run at scale across impactful
   suppliers and platforms around the world.

What Are Two Common Blended In-GAME Ad Units

   The most common formats that are leveraged in a blended in-GAME ad
   campaign are display and video ads. Let's break them down:

--
   Display ads are typically a designed image or a photo combined with
   copy. They should be eye-catching enough to attract the attention of a
   gamer, and they should deliver a quick message.

   Since display ads are often small, it's important to clearly
--
4 Benefits of Advertising in Video GAME

   In-GAME advertising offers an opportunity to reach a growing and
   diverse audience. But, this isn't the only benefit of leveraging this
   channel.

1. Reach a diverse audience of gamers.

   There isn't a "one size fits all" for a typical gamer. Gaming audiences
   are incredibly diverse in their demographics. For example, a 2021 study
   showed that 55% of gamers identified as male, and 45% identified as
   female, and that most gamers range in age across a few generations
   (Source: Anzu, Q4 2021).

--
   diverse in their demographics, interests, and purchase intentions.

2. Leverage in-GAME ads to build brand awareness.

   In-GAME advertising helps you reach your target user in a
   non-disruptive, highly-viewable environment. You're able to connect
   your brand with a captive audience who is unlikely to be multitasking,
   which increases the likelihood of brand recall and awareness.

   Building brand awareness is a valuable benefit of in-GAME ads because
   it helps you get closer to achieving a range of business objectives and
   goals. Brand awareness can expand your audience, increase website
--
   purchasing funnel.

3. Reach influential users who are playing video GAME.

   Gamers are savvy and influential. According to Anzu research, 51% of
   gamers advise others and 47% influence others. And, 46% try to be the
   first to know about new stuff, like emerging tech and new fashion.

   Advertising in video GAME enables you to reach influential gaming
   audiences in an emerging industry. And, gamers have spending power;
   those who play 10+ hours a week have 2x more disposable income than
   non-gamers.

4. Explore new programmatic advertising strategies.

   In-GAME advertising provides the opportunity to test unique ad formats
   that are exclusive to in-GAME environments. Plus, you can reach new
   audiences through emerging technologies.

   With this format, it's important to optimize your ads for the gaming
   environment in order to maximize exposure and capture the attention of
   users. Creatives should be tailored to an in-GAME environment, so that
   the messaging fits within an in-GAME context.

Start Advertising in Video GAME

   Are you ready to get into the GAME? By leveraging in-GAME advertising,
   you can reap the many benefits of this growing channel. You'll reach a
   diverse and engaged audience, with an opportunity to build brand
   awareness.

   Advertising in video GAME is on the rise, and so now is the time to
   add it to your media mix. Get ahead of the GAME by testing in-GAME
   advertising strategies, now!

   Want to run exceptional in-GAME advertising campaigns? Request a demo
   to learn more about StackAdapt.
   graphic that reads "Download the Programmatic In-GAME Advertising
--
You may also like:

   4 in-GAME advertising strategies
     * Campaign Tips

--
Digital Marketing Channels to Adopt in 2023

   a race car on a race track to illustrate in-GAME advertising
     * Digital Advertising Trends

--

   gif showing a race car moving back and forth on a track, like it would
   in a video GAME
     * Digital Advertising Trends
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-43">
<text>
   Learn more.

   Yes, you really can get paid to play video GAME.

   With the rise of Esports, Twitch, and professional gamers, there's
   never been a better time to monetize your video GAME hobby.

   And the cool part is, you don't have to be a pro. Even casual gamers
   are getting in on the action, and in this article I'll break down some
   realistic ways to make money playing video GAME.

   How To Make Money Playing Video GAME
--
   education platform has both academic and extracurricular classes.

   In the extracurricular category, video GAME classes are a hot seller.
   Why? Parents love the idea of a safe, nurturing online environment for
   their kids.

   I connected with Devyn Ricks, a mom of 4, in this video, where she
   reported earning up to $4000 a month playing video GAME on Outschool!

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/Hs98Xu83ves
--
2. Play-to-Earn GAME Apps

   Several smartphone apps let you make money playing video GAME in your
   spare time. Here are a few of Side Hustle Nation's top picks.

Bingo Cash

   The popular Bingo Cash GAME app turns classic bingo from a GAME of luck
   into a GAME of speed and skill.

   Each GAME only takes about 2 minutes to play, and you can earn
   real-world rewards and cash prizes (except in AR, IA, LA, SC, and WA).

--
   rewarded play app

   Rewarded Play is your one-stop app for casual GAME like Solitaire,
   Mahjong, Wheel of Fortune, Yahtzee, and more. As you play, choose your
   rewards and get your gift cards within 48 hours.
--

   The well-rated Android and iOS (4.6-stars from over 250k App Store
   reviews) GAME app pits you against similarly-skilled solitaire players.
   Everyone receives the same deck, and top 3 players who finish with the
   most points win.
--

   With more than 10 million downloads, Mistplay is an interesting app
   that rewards you for discovering and playing new GAME on your phone.

   mistplay app
--
   those units for gift cards to your favorite stores.

   Check out the GAME with 3x or 4x unit "multipliers" to earn gift cards
   faster.

3. Video GAME Testing

   Before video GAME get released to the general public, they go through
   quite a bit of play testing. This is where your vast experience comes
   into play!

   Knowing how a great GAME should work and providing that feedback to the
   developers can be super valuable.

   If you like GAME apps on your phone, KashKick may be worth a look. At
   press time, they were offering $90-120 to play certain GAME and reach
   specific milestones.

   kashkick get paid to play GAME

   Check out our full KashKick review to learn more.

   Similarly, Cash Giraffe (Android only) connects you with new GAME that
   are trying to attract more players. The app tracks the time you spend
   playing and rewards you for hitting certain milestones.
--
   Store.

   In addition, some people actually turn GAME testing into their career!
   Most GAME companies hire quality assurance (QA) testers to spot bugs
   and other issues with GAME before they go on sale.

   A quick search on Indeed found a number of job postings with salaries
--
4. Video GAME Coaching

   Video GAME coaching is a great option if you have a deep understanding
   and passion for specific GAME.

   You can instruct other gamers through tutorials, screen-sharing
   walkthroughs, and group classes. Wouldn't it be cool to get paid to
   share your tips, tricks, and advice?
--

   An alternative would be to set up some coaching gigs on Fiverr for your
   favorite GAME, or try and find clients locally.

   When creating your profile, put yourself in your potential customer's
   shoes. Why should they hire you? What video GAME credentials do you
   have?

   Your rates will vary based on your experience, the popularity of the
   GAME, and competition.

   Most video GAME coaches charge by the hour -- usually in the
   $20-200/hour range. However, you could earn even more with group
   classes.
--
5. All Skill Level Video GAME Tournaments

   You've probably heard of elite gamers winning big prize money from
   top-level video GAME tournaments. GameChampions lets players of all
   skill levels in on the excitement.

   get paid to play video GAME with gamechampions

   They use a "Fair Play Guarantee" to match you with players of similar
--

   GameChampions is open to players 18 and older, but play-to-win money
   GAME aren't available in all geographic areas. The company will give
   you a $5 sign-up bonus when you create your account.

6. Video GAME Reporting

   Another way to make money through your love of playing video GAME is
   to become a video GAME journalist.

   The role involves reporting on video GAME news, upcoming GAME, writing
   GAME reviews, and even reporting from e-sport tournaments.

   The two most common paths to get paid here are either as a staff writer
--

   YouTube is still a popular platform that you can make money playing
   video GAME. Several avid gamers have created their own YouTube channel
   and stream their live gameplay or broadcast recorded videos that rely
   on followers and subscribers.

--

   In addition to streaming, you can create:
    1. gameplay tutorials
    2. engaging video GAME reviews
    3. helpful gameplay tips

   Followers can recommend you to their gaming friends and the revenue can
   quickly become substantial. Video GAME YouTubers monetize with a
   combination of:
     * YouTube ad income
--
     * Merchandise and product sales

   Typical advertising income for video GAME channels may be $3-5 for
   every 1,000 views. With a popular channel, that can add up fast!

--

   Twitch has become one of the most popular sites for gaming across the
   globe. It's the go-to site for video gamers to earn money streaming
   their gameplay.

   As your following grows, you'll start to earn subscription and donation
   revenue. Top streamers make 6- and even 7-figures a year!

   Twitch works best if you're either very good at a certain GAME, and/or
   very entertaining to follow. Remember, you're competing your followers'
   for limited attention, so the content needs to be really compelling.
--

   The rise of cryptocurrency and NFTs have opened up another revenue
   stream for video gamers.

   For example, in Axie Infinity, gamers raise, trade, and battle NFT pets
   known as Axies. As you level up, your characters become more and more
   valuable -- and can be bought and sold.

   The in-GAME currency, Axie Infinity Shards, can then be bought or sold
   on exchanges like Coinbase.

--
   bought it.

   Video GAME guides or tutorials can show others how to complete tricky
   levels or improve their gameplay. It's another way to convert your
   expertise into cash.

--
   course.

   This isn't a video GAME example, but may still be relevant. Kat Norton
   created TikTok tutorials on how to use Excel better. Those went viral,
   and she ended up putting together an in-depth training program on Excel
--
   profitable business!)

   Could you do the same for your favorite GAME?

11. Sell Merchandise

   As a gamer, you you know that a love of video GAME can be part of your
   identity. That's why GAME-themed or GAME-inspired merch can be such a
   hit.

--
   Redbubble to see what's selling. You may not be allowed to use licensed
   characters in your design, but you can get creative to sell other
   products gamers would love.

   make money selling video GAME merch on redbubble

   Thanks to print on demand technology, you don't have to carry any
--
12. Build Your Own Video GAME or App

   How cool would it be to have your own popular GAME on the App Store? If
   you don't have coding or GAME design experience, you can learn from
   top-rated courses like this one.

   Developers earn a 70% royalty on any sales of the app or in-app
   purchases. For a popular GAME, that can turn into a serious income
   stream.

--

   Should the proposal be a hit, you can use your own gaming skills to
   develop the GAME you have always wanted to play.

13. Be a Video GAME Developer
--
   Be A Video GAME Developer

   Your skills as a gamer can also be used behind the scenes as a video
   GAME developer. Becoming part of the video GAME industry itself can be
   a lucrative career choice and a video GAME developer is an in-demand
   skill.

   In this role, you'll be responsible for turning GAME ideas into reality
   through code and collaboration. Plus, per ZipRecruiter, GAME developers
   earn an average of $100,000 a year.

14. Teach Video GAME Design

   If you already have some experience in how video GAME are made, you
   could turn around and teach others. Instructors can make money teaching
   video GAME design techniques and basic coding vocabulary and concepts.

   If you like working with kids, take a look at Outschool. Here you'll
   create an engaging class for future GAME designers and developers.

   If your content is better for adults, you might create a pre-recorded
--
15. Be a Professional Gamer

   Do you have the skills to go pro? There are video GAME tournaments
   across the globe, often with serious prize money on the line.

   Choose a GAME you know you're great at, look for some local or online
   tournaments to get experience, and keep leveling up.

   While elite-level gamers earn millions of dollars, the majority are
   just scraping by. This is similar to professional sports or acting,
   where the average income is quite low, but the pursuit of getting paid
--

   ESports -- short for electronic sports -- is a form of competition
   where you can earn prizes by playing video GAME.

   The typical format involves professional players that compete against
--
   has developed in the last decade or so.

   As more gamers want to see competitions featuring their favorite GAME,
   more GAME developers have started competitions to showcase their GAME
   and provide funding for those tournaments.

   Typically, the GAME that are involved in competitions are first-person
   shooters, multiplayer online battle arenas, battle royale, fighting,
   real-time strategy, and sports.

   If you excel in competition and need to push the boundaries in a
   particular GAME or format then there are several e-sport franchises to
   choose from. These include Dota, Counter-Strike, League of Legends,
   Valorant, Overwatch, Super Smash Bros., StarCraft, and Street Fighter.
--
Getting Paid to Pay Video GAME: Final Thoughts

   You can turn your love of video GAME into a money-making hobby. There
   are opportunities to get paid:
     * playing
--
   Which option is right for you depends on your unique skills, interests,
   and goals. But one thing is certain: the days of your parents telling
   you that playing video GAME is a waste of time are over!

Serious About Making Extra Money?
--
How Can I Get Sponsors For My Video GAME Playing?

   Once you establish a following for your video GAME playing, consider
   contacting sponsors directly. Focus on specific brands you're already a
   customer of that you know your audience will love. Impress them with
--
Companies?

   Typically, a customer service representative for a video GAME company
   will make between $13.50 to $20 an hour.

   Customer support and customer service are essential factors for any
   company. If you know your way around a certain GAME, you can help
   customers and deliver support via an in-GAME chat function. You may
   want to consider an internship first if you want to go on this career
   path.
--
       it's name was still Zareklamy. Anyway, the app has a huge following
       and great amount of positive ratings. You can earn money in
       Paidwork by playing mobile GAME, filling surveys, watching videos,
       creating accounts and doing online shopping. I'd recommend it
       myself to at least give it a try, I've tried and I'm happy about it
--
   Katheryn woodall
       February 9, 2023 at 11:54 am
       I love to play a lot of GAME and I want to make money from it but
       don't know how can you help
       Reply
--
   Asithandile
       April 22, 2023 at 8:38 am
       I love playing GAME but I want to make profit from it but don't
       know home help please
       Reply
--
   fork
       May 5, 2023 at 5:03 am
       https://gamercoach.gg/ pays more for coaches
       Reply
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-44">
<text>
       University, Singapore, Singapore

   Due to the popularity and advancement of 4G/5G networks, mobile GAME
   have already currently become profitable tools for major internet
   platforms. These GAME are even refined to cover almost all age groups
   of the population rather than the young people. Yet in the perception
   of the public, mobile GAME have always seemed to be associated with
   various derogatory terms such as interfering with learning, addiction,
   and violence. K12 students usually have less self-control capability,
   and they are undoubtedly the biggest advocates of mobile GAME. This
   paper summarizes the technological development of mobile GAME from the
   aspects of hardware and software in chronological order. The
   psychological and social problems that mobile GAME have brought to K12
   students are analyzed from a neutral perspective. At the end of the
   paper, the future development of educational GAME and current
   limitations of mobile GAME are also given for the explorations of
   future trends of GAME-based education. This position paper aims to
   provide the insight of what psychosocial impacts that the current
   mobile GAME have on the student, and it may also serve as a reference
   for the how the GAME-based education has been developing according to
   the mobile technology wise.

--

   Due to the popularity of smart terminals and the advancement of 5G
   networks, mobile GAME are currently the most popular type of GAME, as
   well as profitable tools for major internet platforms. Mobile GAME can
   be combined from different levels and content categories, covering
   different, personalities and preferences (Martin et al., 2020). As a
   result mobile GAME are now refined to cover almost all age groups of
   the population, not just young people. Yet in the perception of the
   public, mobile GAME have always seemed to be associated with various
   derogatory terms such as interfering with learning, addiction and
   violence.
--
   old) (Kurt et al., 2022). Students in this age group usually have less
   self-control capability, and they are undoubtedly the biggest advocates
   of mobile GAME. When they play certain GAME for long periods of time
   their behavior and psychological state will be changed in a subtle way.
   The main issue is that mobile GAME may contain unhealthy contents such
   as pornography, violence, ignorance, superstition, etc. which
   implicitly affect the formation of the correct value system and the
   healthy development of their body and mind for these K12 students
   (Destyanto et al., 2017). In addition, some young people indulge in
   mobile GAME due to lack of self-control, which not only result in
   harmful influence on their studies but also induces a series of
   negative social activities and social relationship (Kurt et al., 2022).
--
   The pioneers of communication science, Lazarsfeld and Merton, argued
   that modern mass media have a clear negative function of
   "psychoanesthesia." Some violent mobile GAME reveal the nature of the
   "psychoanesthesia" function in another textual dimension: they create
   illusions through inexpensive and negative entertainment, thus eating
   away at the social mobility of those young people in an implicit
   cultural way (Kurt et al., 2022). Craig Anderson found that the
   "psychoanesthetic" mechanism of violent mobile GAME increases the
   physiological arousal of aggressive behavior, cognition, emotions, and
   violent impulses, and reduces pro-social behavior in adolescents
   (Elsherbiny and Al Maamari, 2021; Kurt et al., 2022). Accordingly,
   violent behavior has become the main "product component" of mobile
   GAME "inflicted" on adolescents. Moreover, its basic social
   manifestations can be summarized in four points: firstly, it creates
   and activates networks of thinking related to violent aggression;
   secondly, it weakens the inhibition process of violence; thirdly, the
   GAME's violent reward rules allow aggressive behavior to be imitated
   and reinforced in the "mimetic environment;" and fourthly, the binary
   values of right and wrong in GAME can reduce young people's empathy
   (Elsherbiny and Al Maamari, 2021).

   Mobile GAME do not only imply a behavior, but also contain a value,
   which might be sometimes anti-social in nature. Violent mobile GAME on
   the Internet may portray the grandeur, hooliganism, and banditry of
   triad bosses and gangsters, contributing to the psychology of
   adolescent violence. In particular, the propaganda of "materialism" in
   violent online GAME can easily lead young people to abandon their
   original morals and values, so that the "money first" mentality
   gradually seeps into their minds and leads to a distorted way of
--

   This position paper therefore infer the future development of
   educational GAME from existing mobile GAME, and shares some insights
   into the current limitations, and critically analyses the above issues
   from a neutral perspective, discusses the psychological impacts and
   social problems that mobile GAME may cause for K12 students (Arteaga
   et al., 2012). It also offers the future development of mobile GAME
   and the limitations of current educational GAME in order to explore
   future trends in gamified education. This paper can also be considered
   as a reference on how gamified education is evolving in light of mobile
--

   Nowadays, almost everyone who owns a smartphone has been exposed to
   mobile GAME at one time or another. It may be a mini-GAME embedded in
   a web page or app, or a large 3D online GAME like "Arena of Alor" or
   "Player Unknown's Battlegrounds" (De Gloria et al., 2014). These GAME
   have a huge update from the mobile GAME of over a decade ago, both in
   scale and in audio and video experience. And most mobile phones now
   have larger screens and touch screens have become the main way to use
   mobile phones, which did not exist on the same level mobile phones in
   10 years ago, which has promoted the development of mobile GAME
   (Rubino et al., 2015).

   The continuous evolution of cell phone hardware has brought about a
   constant change in the needs of gamers. There was a time when the only
   requirement for gamers was that their phones could run a particular
   GAME, but now gamers want smoother GAME, no lag when playing online,
   and even want their phones to be able to turn on the highest picture
   quality of the GAME (Ma et al., 2019). This means that the hardware
   that provides key performance in the phone and the network environment
   that the phone relies on also needs to evolve to meet the increasingly
   diverse needs of gamers (Wang et al., 2020). Gradually, mobile phones
   and mobile GAME have worked together to promote growth and form the
   industry shape we see today. In addition to entertainment, mobile GAME
   also carry part of people's social needs in their daily lives (Yang and
   Gong, 2021).
--
   al., 2019). At the time, most phones only had a black and white screen
   of about 1 inch, and due to system and network capacity limitations,
   only the GAME built into the phone could be played, such as Snake,
   Tetris, etc (Figure 1). These were indeed interesting, but they were
   just ordinary GAME to kill the time.
   FIGURE 1
   www.frontiersin.org

   Figure 1. Representative mobile GAME from 1994 to 2019.

   After 2003, color screen cell phones and PDAs began to occupy the
   consumers' vision, the hardware performance of cell phones began to
   improve, the software and system functions were gradually enriched. At
   the same time, electronic GAME began to appear on cell phones in
   various forms (Syahrivar et al., 2022). Since Symbian had strict limits
   on the resolution and number of threads for software development, and
   J2ME development had a maximum memory limit, the vast majority of
   mobile GAME did not exceed 1 MB in size until the new Symbian system
   appeared in 2006, when these restrictions were lifted one by one (de
   Byl, 2014).

   The popularity of color-screened phones allowed GAME developers to see
   the opportunity, and some very well-known GAME such as Need for Speed,
   Call of Duty, Command and Conquer, and many others launched dedicated
   mobile versions (Berlo et al., 2020). Many small development teams and
   enthusiasts also developed board GAME such as chess, Texas hold'em
   into mobile versions. A variety of mobile phone native GAME began to
   appear at this time, such as "Tower Bloxx" and "Galaxy on Fire" in 2005
   were enjoyable for handheld gamers at the time (Haney, 2017). Around
   2005, when client-side mobile GAME were just exploding, there were
   already many specialized GAME makers developing mobile GAME for
   non-smartphones, but limited by the speed and stability of cell phone
   networks, and they were eagerly anticipating the popularity of 3G and
--

   In 2008, with the birth of iOS and Android, Apple successfully
   pioneered the touch screen cell phone, after the mobile GAME from the
   constraints of the physical keyboard, such as "Angry Birds," "Plants
   vs. Zombies," "Fruit Ninja," "Temple Run" and a series of new hand
   quickly occupied the market share in 1 year (Vaiopoulou et al., 2021).
   The introduction of Angry Birds made the public realize for the first
   time that the era of mobile GAME may be coming (Kalogiannakis et al.,
   2022).

   "Angry Birds", developed by Rovio and launched in 2009, is another
   phenomenal product. Throughout the GAME, gamers only need to do one
   action, which is to press and hold the bird on the slingshot in the
   screen to drag and release (Villasana et al., 2020). Such a simple
   operation overturned the public's inherent impression of how mobile
   GAME are presented, so Fruit Ninja and Cut the Rope, launched a year
   later, both became star products at the time for their sophisticated
   gameplay design and simple sliding operation (Thomas et al., 2019). Few
   people may know that the first release of the GAME Doodle Jump in 2009
   was developed for touchscreen phones, and only a year later came a
   version that supported physical button phones. That's because around
   2010, the popularity of large-screen touch phones with smart systems
   made a radical change in the way mobile GAME were operated (Thomas et
   al., 2019).

   The birth of the iPhone and the resulting trend in the use of touch
   screen created not only revolutionized the user's experience of
   operating cell phones, but also made hand GAME free from the
   limitations of the physical keyboard, with new operation ways of
--

   Take iOS as an example, App Store is the only (or the main) channel
   value, hand GAME developers still have the leisure of "slow work, fine
   work," but by the limitation of iPhone ownership, the income of
   developers at this time is much shabbier compared with today (Bagaa et
   al., 2018). For example, in 2011, the highest-grossing handheld GAME in
   China was "World War II Storm," and its monthly flow was only $800,000
   (Paseka and Schwab, 2020).
--
   Information Technology in 2013, domestic cell phone users officially
   ushered in the 4G era (Karabiyik et al., 2020). In 2014, the real-time
   competitive MOBA hand GAME "Vainglory" was launched, emphasizing the
   real-time nature of network online, while "Magic Spirit Summoning,"
   "Tower Legend" and other nurturing RPG GAME, although the gameplay is
   focused on the standalone part, the official will regularly update a
   large amount of GAME content to keep the GAME fresh and the passion of
   gamers, so an efficient network becomes very important (Wang et al.,
   2015).

--
   in the 3.5 GHz range, which can theoretically reach a wireless data
   rate of 1 Gbps, greatly increasing wireless data bandwidth and enabling
   mobile GAME with less hourly delay and faster rate, giving gamers a
   better and faster gaming experience (Zappone et al., 2016). Mobile
   GAME are a cross-regional, cross-cultural, cross-racial, and
   cross-religious entertainment. It allows gamers to realize the ability
   to be entertained at home, on the subway, and outdoors with gamers
   around the world at any time. These demands reflect the advantages of
   4G LTE and later 4G LTE-A networks, which can provide bandwidth based
--
   demands and transferring data to multiple devices at the same time,
   thus making the mobile network a stronger experience. Whether it's skin
   updates for MOBAs or massive updates for nurturing GAME, which can be
   downloaded to gamers' phones faster (Buzzi et al., 2012).
   FIGURE 2
   www.frontiersin.org
--

   In 2015, "Arena of Alor" was publicly tested together with "We MOBA"
   and other multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) GAME, and most
   handheld gamers were brought into the tide of MOBA GAME (Buzzi et al.,
   2016). These GAME are not only fast to get started, but also have
   compact gameplay and gorgeous graphics effects, which not only require
   excellent performance of network environment where the handheld gamers
   are located, but also challenge the hardware performance of cell phones
   (Zhang et al., 2017). The complex lighting and particle effects in the
   GAME make the CPU and GPU in the SoC take a lot of pressure; at this
   time, the modem in the phone can't be idle and needs to coordinate the
   network to cope with transferring the various data that occur in the
   GAME. Such comprehensive needs have led more cell phone manufacturers
   to start launching products that emphasize cell phone performance and
   networking capabilities (Chiang et al., 2021).

   This trend has prompted more developers to bring a wider variety of
   GAME with richer titles to the mobile platform. Almost every year,
   several topical titles emerge, such as "Crackdown 3" in 2016, "Monument
   Valley 2" in 2017, and "World in Pictures" and "Florence" in 2018,
   which expose more smartphone users to the "video GAME" entertainment
   genre (Guo et al., 2019). For most gamers, the connected competitive
   GAME like 2018's Peaceful Elite handheld, Wild Ride 9: Racing Legends
   and the new Call of Duty Mobile in 2019 are their best choices (Guo et
   al., 2019).
--
   From black and white screen feature phones to large screen touch
   smartphones, not only cell phones have changed over the past 10 years,
   but the way we work, live and play GAME has changed dramatically. As
   5G technology gets closer to us, mobile GAME will take on a more
   diverse look with new technology and new hardware, such as 5G cloud
   GAME will also bring richer GAME products to more gamers, using 5G's
   high speed and low latency advantages, host and PC GAME will also
   become possible to load in real time on the mobile side (Habiba and
   Hossain, 2018). This will also bring a different GAME experience for
   handheld gamers.

   The 4G era has brought about the rise of handheld gaming, which has now
   became an important part of the global gaming landscape, with countless
   numbers of handheld gamers, and the demand for mobile gaming
   performance continues to increase. The advent of the 5G era will change
   the GAME experience for gamers at this stage, which is limited by
   equipment and network latency (Akbar et al., 2021). Although 5G is
   still in its infancy, it will definitely have a significant impact on
--
   for cloud gaming. Due to the advancement in the network, major mobile
   manufacturers are now launching 5G gaming phones to cater to the market
   and provide a better gaming experience to the gamers. Therefore gaming
   phones have also become one of the selling points for cell phone
   manufacturers.
--
Public Awareness--Negative Content of Mobile GAME

   Many elementary school students are addicted to mobile GAME and cannot
   extricate themselves from GAME, some of them even steal their parents'
   money to recharge for playing GAME and play truant. They only think
   about the mobile GAME all day and all night, and think of all the ways
   to play GAME, so they are not interested in studying at all and their
   academic performance is in a mess. It seems obvious that the more time
   you spend playing GAME, the worse your academic performance, and there
   are studies that have found a correlation between time spent on video
   GAME and students' academic performance (Padilla-Walker et al., 2009).
   But is poor academic performance really the fault of gaming? It is
   important to note that "correlation" does not mean "causation": for
--
   A student who is repeatedly frustrated with his grades, expects
   appreciation and has high expectations of himself, has no outlet for
   his pent-up emotions. But in mobile GAME he can not only vent his
   stress but also receive a quick reward (Chafouleas et al., 2021). The
   situation of students who are already not excelling in their academic
   performance will get worse because playing GAME will waste time in
   learning, thus creating a vicious circle (Laws and Millward, 2001),
   i.e., although playing GAME takes away from our studies, playing GAME
   may only be one point in the chain, and the reasons that lead us to
   play GAME are actually more complex.

Why Are GAME Addictive but Learning Is Usually NOT?

   Compared with learning, mobile GAME have distinct advantages that
   GAME tend to have some measure the progress of participants to some
   extent, meaning that their effort is visible and obvious, whereas
   learning does not (Luder et al., 2020). There is progress in learning,
--
   that "hard work doesn't always lead to progress" (Chen and Gregory,
   2009). The GAME makes this process visible, turning a large amount into
   many tiny amounts, and it is important to feel that you are improving.

Long-Term and Short-Term Goals

   The tasks set in the GAME are mostly achievable goals, not too easy and
   not too hard. There is a lot of data analysis behind this degree of
   accuracy (Wang et al., 2020). Increasing participation in GAME is
   linked to their benefits and results. Not so with learning. The average
   person does not have this analysis; you put a 500-page book in front of
--
Rewards

   The GAME does such a good job of this. It is clear on the GAME that for
   everything you achieve, you will be rewarded accordingly and your
   efforts will be recognized. On the other hand, learning, has a great
--
   a novel. But when listening to a lesson, this is simply not possible.
   If we could figure out how humans learn and what motivates people to
   act from the development of GAME, then apply it beyond GAME, the
   value it could create is immeasurable, and it would be a
   ground-breaking thing.
--
The Psychosocial Impact of Mobile GAME

   In fact, the psychosocial mechanisms behind playing GAME deserve more
   attention than academic performance. Often the decline in academic
   performance is the most easily observed, but the relationship between
   playing video GAME and soft aspects such as feelings of loneliness,
   loss, self-esteem, social anxiety and social skills is often
   overlooked. These commonly overlooked factors largely contribute to
   negative events that influence our perceptions of mobile GAME (Han et
   al., 2009).

--
   2015) have found that people who have low self-esteem in real life, are
   lonely, lack social skills, and are less successful in real life tend
   to spend more time in video GAME (Winter et al., 2016). In turn,
   playing video GAME further exacerbates gamers' feelings of loneliness
   and increased dissatisfaction with life (Kowert et al., 2015).
   FIGURE 3
--
   Figure 3. Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs theory.

   A successful mobile GAME is inevitably appealing because of the high
   sense of achievement that teenagers can feel in the GAME again. Imagine
   that people who are not respected in real life can be admired for their
   virtual achievements in the GAME, either through kryptonite (spending
   money to increase combat power) or through their skill in playing the
   GAME. Even if you don't make it to the top of the leader boards, you
   can still find a presence in a variety of ways. Moreover, in online
   GAME, without the constraints of real identities and conditions,
   gamers can communicate more flexibly and with less embarrassment of
   being rejected due to real conditions, communication between people is
   easier and gamers can easily build closer relationships through various
   tasks (Caplan et al., 2009).

   These people who are dissatisfied with their real lives can find a
   sense of presence in the GAME in a variety of ways to escape their
   real-life dissatisfaction (Figure 4). However, after being satisfied in
   the virtual world, when they return to their real life, the gap will be
--
   www.frontiersin.org

   Figure 4. Addiction progress of mobile GAME and its different stages.

Anti-social Behavior Caused by Mobile GAME

   The content of many mobile GAME is full of fighting and killing,
   gunfire, wild and weird characters, mechanical and rough movements,
   absurd plot and fast rhythm, which have a serious negative impact on
   students' moral and psychological health. Those students who are
   addicted to GAME are often not calm enough, restless, impulsive,
   indifferent to others, and more violent, bringing certain destabilizing
   factors to the campus, family and society. They are in reality, but
   their minds are in the online world, and they are prone to
   schizophrenia symptoms, and few children who are addicted to mobile
   GAME are psychologically healthy. Nowadays, anti-social behavior also
   brings much attention to mobile GAME study. Although video GAME have
   been designed and developed to entertain (or educate), it has to be
   admitted that many of them contain violent content. According to data
   from Children Now 2001, a non-profit organization concerned with
   children's learning and development, as early as 15 years ago, 89% of
   all GAME contained violent content, and nearly half of them contained
   severe violence (Bulduklu, 2017).

   Researchers have found that excessive immersion in GAME with
   antisocial content (violence) can easily lead to addiction and that
   such GAME have a subtle effect on gamers: they lack empathy and are
   prone to destructive behavior in real life. In fact, for gamers, the
   violent stimuli provided by virtual worlds such as combat are not only
   a stress relief, but also a training exercise that allows them to
   become accustomed to such aggressive emotions and destructive behavior
   in GAME, which they gradually carry over into real life (Huizenga et
   al., 2009).

   In a study conducted in 2011, Anderson and Bushman surveyed over 4,000
   gamers and found that violent GAME increased aggressive emotions and
   decreased pro-social behaviour. Both children and adults, men and women
   were deeply affected by this (Foerster et al., 2019). This is not to
   say that violent play necessarily leads to violent behavior. However,
   when we are constantly trained to think about our enemies in GAME and
   reinforced to react quickly and aggressively to each other's actions,
   we constantly rehearse this script in our minds and feel threatened all
--
   "hostile attribution bias."

   It must be clear here that it is not the video GAME that causes the
   gamer's antisocial behavior, but the violent content of the video GAME.
   It is pointless and even counterproductive to make a blanket statement.
   We should advocate for the regulation of the video GAME market and the
   development of sensible GAME content, rather than a blanket ban on all
   video GAME.

Further Actions May Take for Correct Guidance
--

   Most scholars are studying how to make learning more interesting, so
   that students can learn by doing as what the mobile GAME does. This is
   the dream of our educational researchers, and Dewey's emphasis on
   "learning by doing" does not seem to be working particularly well. In
--
   emotional and attitudinal values (Villasana et al., 2020). This is why
   educational scholars are proposing to implement gamified learning,
   using educational GAME to achieve gamified learning. Gamified learning
   in a narrow sense generally refers to pure video GAME, while gamified
   learning in a broad sense includes GAME mechanics, GAME element design
   concepts, etc.

   The core educational values of GAME are mainly acting on the aspects
   of psychology, socialization, and culture. With its effect on play
   motivation, playful thinking, and playfulness (Figure 5), a good mobile
   GAME does need multiple aspects of knowledge, ability, emotions,
   attitudes and values (Schwab, 2018). Play motivation is the most
   fundamental and operational value, emphasizing the use of play to
   motivate learning. Playful thinking suggests going beyond playful forms
   and emphasizes the design of non-playful learning activities as
   "GAME." Playfulness is the most meaningful value emphasizing that
   learners approach the process and outcomes of learning with the same
   spirit and attitude as play. The core link between the three aspects is
--
   www.frontiersin.org

   Figure 5. Core educational value of mobile GAME.

Gamification of Education/Educational Mobile GAME
--
   an important issues: distinguishing the age group of the user.
   Gamification of education is more suitable for the K12 age group and
   should generally be in the form of simple GAME, with the degree of
   gamification decreasing with the age of the user increasing; there will
   be some adults over 18 who prefer educational products in the form of
   large-scale GAME such as online GAME, but this may be a niche market
   (Abeele et al., 2017). A light GAME should be a balance between
   learning and gameplay, it is like a layer of ketchup in the middle of a
   hamburger, it can be a little less, but too much is definitely not. If
   the GAME is too complex, it will take away from the main focus, the
   child will appear to be learning but spend more time playing, and the
   level of emotional arousal will be too high, which is not the desired
--
   parts of the product and need to be developed into an actionable
   solution, not optional. Otherwise, even the best design will be
   short-lived and will end up like a normal GAME after its life cycle.
   So, as well as the product team, the operations team is equally
   important (Cha and Seo, 2018). While designing the gamification, don't
--
   with brain science; with artificial intelligence and big data (Quelly
   et al., 2016; Black et al., 2018). If the research is to solve
   students' learning problems through mobile GAME, it is necessary to
   combine various research results and educational results from GAME
   design. Experimental research in this area has been conducted and found
   it to be quite effective. Through this experiment, it is found that the
   difficulty in developing this type of GAME is decided by how it can
   really enhance their learning effectiveness (Calpbinici and Tas Arslan,
   2019).

   Still, GAME are GAME, and still there are four major limitation for
   the current development of educational mobile GAME.:

   o The first major limitation is portability, that is, how what is
   learned in a mobile GAME transfers to the real world, which exposes the
   Achilles heel of mobile GAME. The challenges in video GAME are often
   fictional and have no connection to everyday life, but are rather a
   fantasy. The knowledge and skills that K12 students acquire in GAME
   such as battling dragons, racing jousts, and Tetris are not meaningful
   to everyday life and therefore not directly transferable.

   o The second major limitation is simplicity. Mobile GAME simplify
   complex systems to their core and are procedural representations of the
   real world. The world we live in is much more complex and often defies
   the simple logic of the GAME. This results in learners often losing
   touch with the systems modeled in the GAME.

   o The third major limitation is that GAME lack real-life environments.
   Mobile GAME are not designed to have an effect on the gamer after the
   GAME is over. The K12 students are too different from the world they
   live in, and the real world is too complex. Even those GAME that have
   a realistic purpose, so-called serious GAME or educational GAME,
   mostly fail in their transfer from the GAME to the real world. This is
   good news for those who fear that violent GAME make people violent,
   and bad news for those who think that smart GAME automatically make
   people smart.

   o The fourth major limitation relates to the above question about the
   environment. K12 students are usually unable to spontaneously establish
   a relationship between what they learn in mobile GAME and real life.
   They can grasp a great deal of information in mobile GAME and remember
   it over time, but are unable to recall the simplest historical data in
   the classroom. The link between learning achievements in GAME and in
   the real world is often overlooked by many K12 students and teachers.

   GAME open the door to the transfer of learning experiences, but K12
   students must go through this door themselves. For that matter, the
   role of teaching behavior in the use of mobile GAME is clearly
   underestimated. Learners need constructive support to draw outcomes
   relevant to their own learning from a rewarding play space. There may
   not be a fundamental difference in the traditional sense of learning,
   but there is a difference in the logical growth and understanding of
   GAME (Rahim et al., 2020). Besides, the illusory nature of the mobile
   gaming experience makes the transfer of results very difficult. In
   response, external forces are needed to drive attention toward the
--
   content of the learning outcomes, the enhancement of skills and
   knowledge, should be explored together with the K12 students. A bridge
   between the virtual and real worlds is built when all these gamers take
   note of the content and learning outcomes in question. The questions
   that need to be answered on the teaching side are which real-world
   environments can apply what is learned in the GAME and which aspects of
   the GAME are worth learning from. And gamers, the K12 students, should
   be motivated to notice this connection and to test what they have
   learned in their everyday lives (Kyriakou and Glentis, 2021).
--
Conclusion

   This paper summarizes the technological development of mobile GAME
   from the aspects of hardware and software. A neutral perspective is
   given to analyze the psychological and social problems that mobile
   GAME have brought to K12 students. At the end of the paper, the
   insights of the future development of educational GAME and current
   limitations of mobile GAME are also addressed. The major task for the
   development is to reflect on the content of the mobile GAME, which is
   not directly accessible. It is difficult to examine what is learned
   with a critical eye during play and must therefore be stimulated
--

   Mobile GAME and design requirements to increase teenagers' physical
   activity. Pervasive Mob. Comput. 8, 900-908. doi:
   10.1016/j.pmcj.2012.08.002
--

   Bagaa, M., Taleb, T., Laghrissi, A., Ksentini, A., and Flinck, H.
   (2018). Coalitional GAME for the creation of efficient virtual core
   network slices in 5g mobile systems. IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun. 36,
   469-484. doi: 10.1109/jsac.2018.2815398
--

   Bavelier, D., Green, C., Han, D., Renshaw, P., Merzenich, M., and
   Gentile, D. (2011). Brains on video GAME. Nat. Rev. Neurosci. 12,
   763-768. doi: 10.1038/nrn3135

--
   Berlo, Z., van Reijmersdal, E., and Rozendaal, E. (2020). Adolescents
   and handheld advertising: the roles of brand familiarity and smartphone
   attachment in the processing of mobile adverGAME. J. Cust. Behav. 19,
   438-449. doi: 10.1002/cb.1822

--
   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Bulduklu, Y. (2017). Mobile GAME on the basis of uses and
   gratifications approach: a comparison of the mobile GAME habits of
   university and high school students. Convergence (London, England) 25,
   901-917. doi: 10.1177/1354856517748159
--

   Buzzi, S., Colavolpe, G., Saturnino, D., and Zappone, A. (2012).
   Potential GAME for energy-efficient power control and subcarrier
   allocation in uplink multicell ofdma systems. IEEE J. Sel. Top. Signal
   Process. 6, 89-103. doi: 10.1109/jstsp.2011.2177069
--
   Cha, S., and Seo, B. (2018). Smartphone use and smartphone addiction in
   middle school students in Korea: prevalence, social networking service,
   and GAME use. Health Psychol. Open 5:205510291875504. doi:
   10.1177/2055102918755046

--
   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   De Gloria, A., Bellotti, F., and Berta, R. (2014). Serious GAME for
   education and training. Int. J. Serious GAME 1. doi:
   10.17083/ijsg.v1i1.11
--

   Destyanto, A., Putri, O., and Hidayatno, A. (2017). Serious simulation
   GAME development for energy transition education using integrated
   framework GAME design. IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 94:012157.
   doi: 10.1088/1755-1315/94/1/012157

--

   Gentile, D., Lynch, P., Linder, J., and Walsh, D. (2004). The effects
   of violent video GAME habits on adolescent hostility, aggressive
   behaviors, and school performance. J. Adolesc. 27, 5-22. doi:
   10.1016/j.adolescence.2003.10.002
--

   Ghosh, S., De, D., Deb, P., and Mukherjee, A. (2018). 5G-ZOOM-GAME:
   small cell zooming using weighted majority cooperative GAME for energy
   efficient 5G mobile network. Wirel. Netw. 26, 349-372. doi:
   10.1007/s11276-018-1818-9
--
   Guo, C., Gong, C., Guo, J., Xu, H., and Zhang, L. (2019).
   TCQG--software-defined transmission control scheme in 5g networks from
   queuing GAME perspective. Sensors 19:4170. doi: 10.3390/s19194170

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar
--

   Han, D., Lee, Y., Na, C., Ahn, J., Chung, U., Daniels, M., et al.
   (2009). The effect of methylphenidate on Internet video GAME play in
   children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Compr.
   Psychiatry 50, 251-256. doi: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2008.08.011
--

   Huizenga, J., Admiraal, W., Akkerman, S., and Dam, G. (2009). Mobile
   GAME-based learning in secondary education: engagement, motivation and
   learning in a mobile city GAME. J. Comput. Assist. Learn. 25, 332-344.
   doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2729.2009.00316.x

--
   Karabiyik, T., Jaiswal, A., Thomas, P., and Magana, J. (2020).
   Understanding the interactions between the scrum master and the
   development team: a GAME-theoretic approach. Mathematics 8:1553. doi:
   10.3390/math8091553

--

   Kowert, R., Vogelgesang, J., Festl, R., and Quandt, T. (2015).
   Psychosocial causes and consequences of online video GAME play. Comput.
   Hum. Behav. 45, 51-58. doi: 10.1016/j.chb.2014.11.074

--
   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Kyriakou, G., and Glentis, A. (2021). Skin in the GAME:
   video-GAME-related cutaneous pathologies in adolescents. Int. J.
   Pediatr. Adolesc. Med. 8, 68-75. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpam.2019.09.002

--

   Padilla-Walker, L., Nelson, L., Carroll, J., and Jensen, A. (2009).
   More than a just a GAME: video GAME and internet use during emerging
   adulthood. J. Youth Adolesc. 39, 103-113. doi:
   10.1007/s10964-008-9390-8
--

   Rubino, I., Barberis, C., Xhembulla, J., and Malnati, G. (2015).
   Integrating a location-based mobile GAME in the museum visit. J.
   Comput. Cult. Herit. 8, 1-18. doi: 10.1145/2724723

--
   Google Scholar

   Seo, Y., Dolan, R., and Buchanan-Oliver, M. (2019). Playing GAME:
   advancing research on online and mobile gaming consumption. Internet
   Res. 29, 289-292. doi: 10.1108/intr-04-2019-542
--

   play in freemium mobile GAME: a compensatory mechanism. Int. J. Retail
   Distrib. Manag. 50, 117-134. doi: 10.1108/ijrdm-09-2020-0358

--
   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Wang, L., Wang, Y., Ding, Z., and Wang, X. (2015). Cell selection GAME
   for densely-deployed sensor and mobile devices in 5g networks
   integrating heterogeneous cells and the internet of things. Sensors 15,
--

   Winter, J., Wentzel, M., and Ahluwalia, S. (2016). Chairs!: a mobile
   GAME for organic chemistry students to learn the ring flip of
   cyclohexane. J. Chem. Edu. 93, 1657-1659. doi:
   10.1021/acs.jchemed.5b00872
--

   Yang, Q., and Gong, X. (2021). The engagement-addiction dilemma: an
   empirical evaluation of mobile user interface and mobile GAME
   affordance. Internet Res. 31, 1745-1768. doi: 10.1108/intr-11-2020-0622

--
   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Keywords: psychosocial impacts, mobile GAME, K12 student, future
   development, educational mobile GAME

   Citation: Li Y, Xu Z, Hao Y, Xiao P and Liu J (2022) Psychosocial
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-45">
<text>
43 Gaming Companies You Need to Know

   From pick-up-and-play casual mobile GAME to geocache hunting to
   bleeding-edge virtual reality, these innovative upstarts and trusted
   veterans are why video gaming continues to lap all entertainment
--
   In, he was a digital editor at the design-focused Sixtysix Magazine and
   associate editor at Chicagoist.
   back-of-head shot of person wearing headphones and playing video GAME
   Image: Shutterstock

--
   In the letter to shareholders heard `round the entertainment world,
   Netflix famously admitted that it competes with -- and loses to -- the
   popular video GAME Fortnite more than HBO. And while the gargantuan
   success of that Epic GAME blockbuster surely remains an outlier, the
   subtext is unmistakable: In the knock-down, drag-out competition for
--
   busting.

   The global video GAME market is projected to see more than $365 billion
   in revenue for 2023, which is up from almost $320 billion in 2022,
   according to data from Statista. The gaming industry owes some of that
--
   capture cameras and play in "holodecks," which put groups of users
   together into immersive social experiences. For example, Sandbox VR's
   Squid GAME Virtuals experience lets customers compete in GAME inspired
   by the popular Netflix series.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsSandbox VR is Hiring | View 0 Jobs
--
   Location: Novato, California

   2K makes interactive GAME for mobile, computer and console play. Its
   2K Sports division includes titles like the NBA 2K series, while its 2K
   Play division releases titles like Lego 2K Drive. The company operates
   a testing lab where users known as "playtesters" can play new and
   existing GAME and offer feedback to the development teams.
   They're Hiring | View 4 Jobs2K is Hiring | View 4 Jobs

--

   Intercept GAME is a gaming development studio that leans toward space,
   simulation and strategy-based GAME. Its current major project is the
   Kerbal Space Program 2 video GAME, which uses immersive audio content
   to simulate a rocket launch -- and it's so realistic that some NASA
   staff have used the program to run experiments.
--
   Location: Chicago, Illinois

   Iron Galaxy Studios' portfolio of video GAME includes more than 60
   different titles, with projects that have been available to play on
   platforms including PlayStation, Xbox, Oculus and Nintendo Switch. In
--
   Location: San Francisco, California

   Volley creates voice-controlled GAME that can be played using an
   Amazon Alexa or Google Home smart speaker. Its offerings include
   well-known titles like The Price Is Right, Jeopardy, Wheel of Fortune
--
   Location: Los Angeles, California

   Not quite a video GAME company, but a gaming company nonetheless,
   Exploding Kittens is the maker of the card GAME with which it shares a
   name and describes as a "kitty powered version of Russian Roulette."
   More than 11 million Exploding Kittens GAME have been sold, and other
   popular products from the company include the pinball-esque A GAME of
   Cat &amp Mouth, the word-guessing GAME Poetry for Neanderthals and the
   word-shouting board GAME Really Loud Librarians.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsExploding Kittens is Hiring | View 0 Jobs

--
   Location: Redmond, Washington

   Nintendo is known both for its GAME and gaming consoles. With roots
   dating as far back as the late 1800s, the company first debuted its
   famous characters Mario and Donkey Kong nearly 100 years later in the
   1980s. There are now thousands of titles users can play on Nintendo
   Switch, including popular Nintendo published GAME like Animal
   Crossing: New Horizons, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and The Legend of Zelda:
   Breath of the Wild.
--
   Founded in the 1980s, Ubisoft is the company behind popular gaming
   franchises like Assassin's Creed, Far Cry, Rabbids and Just Dance.
   Ubisoft is one of the world's largest independent video GAME
   publishers, and many of its GAME are available across platforms
   including PlayStation, Xbox, PC and Nintendo Switch. The company's
   areas of technological expertise include artificial intelligence and
--
   Location: Paris, France

   Gameloft has 190 GAME in its portfolio with 1.5 million downloads
   completed daily. For two decades, the company has been developing GAME
   for mobile, PC and gaming consoles. Gameloft is known for titles like
   The Oregon Trail and Dragon Mania Legends.
--
   It's not a gaming company per se, but few outfits are as inextricable
   from the gaming landscape as streaming platform Twitch. The go-to
   broadcasting choice for the e-sports community and other gamers, the
   video platform-meets-social community was acquired by Amazon in 2014
   and (per the company) attracts more than 10 million monthly visitors.
--
   Location: Sherman Oaks, California

   Mythical GAME is a team of veteran GAME and platform developers
   working together to bring groundbreaking new ideas to market and
   enhance the gameplay experience. The company is dedicated to playing a
   part in creating an integrated secondary market built on true ownership
   of digital assets to bring players, developers and content creators
--
   Location: Irvine, California

   MobilityWare specializes in developing tremendously replayable GAME
   for mobile devices and Facebook. The company's impressive roster of
   GAME includes Solitaire, Spider Solitaire, Jigsaw Puzzle and Video
   Poker, providing users with hours of entertainment without any learning
   curve.
--
   Location: Bellevue, Washington

   Bungie is the GAME company best known for creating blockbuster
   science-fiction franchises Halo and Destiny. Founded in Chicago in
   1991, Bungie was acquired by Microsoft in 2000 and blazed new trails
--
   Bungie spun out of Microsoft in 2007 but continued work on the Halo
   franchise up to the launch of 2010's Halo: Reach. The company launched
   the first GAME in its current flagship franchise, Destiny, in 2014.
   Bungie was acquired by Sony Interactive Entertainment in 2022.
   They're Hiring | View 9 JobsBungie is Hiring | View 9 Jobs
--
   Holding some of the most prime IP this side of Marvel in its portfolio
   has proven a sound business strategy for this major entertainment
   company. The GAME division of Warner Bros. Entertainment, a brand under
   the Warner Bros. Discovery umbrella, operates hit franchises like
   Mortal Kombat, which is headed up by Chicago-based subsidiary
--
   Location: Seattle, Washington

   DoubleDown Interactive makes social versions of classic casino GAME --
   everything from blackjack and slots to poker and roulette -- for social
   and mobile platforms. The company started out with the launch of a
   social casino GAME on Facebook in 2010, and by 2015, was among the
   top-performing GAME in the Apple App Store.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsDoubleDown Interactive LLC is Hiring | View
   0 Jobs
--
   One of the industry's true powerhouses, EA is proof that quality and
   quantity need not be mutually exclusive. The EA Sports division is
   responsible for some of the most iconic sports-GAME franchises,
   including FIFA, Madden NFL and NBA Live. EA's classic non-sports series
   range from The Sims to Medal of Honor, and its Mobile subsidiary does a
--
   Location: Culver City, California

   Jam City has produced GAME adaptations of massively popular tentpole
   franchises, including Harry Potter and Marvel Avengers titles. They
   also inked a multi-year deal with Disney to develop GAME. The
   developer -- which counts the creators of MySpace and a former 20th
   Century Fox executive among its co-founders -- has proven to be a major
--

   Play Q is an on-the-rise mobile gaming developer. The company
   rioritizes easy-to-grasp gameplay, colorful graphics, fit-for-all-ages
   narratives and just-so degrees of familiarity -- think puzzles and
   platforms.
--

   Co-founded by music industry veterans, IllFonic has grown into a
   leading indie GAME developer, making its name on tactical titles like
   Armored Warfare and horror survival GAME like Friday the 13th: The
   GAME. The company takes strides to maintain an independent spirit even
   as it continues to grow, and it carefully plans projects with an eye
--

   Nexon has been in the gaming industry for more than 20 years and has
   produced dozens of massively multiplayer online role-playing GAME that
   are available to users in more than 190 countries. The company's GAME
   can be played on Windows, Xbox, PlayStation and mobile.
   They're Hiring | View 8 JobsNexon is Hiring | View 8 Jobs
--
   Location: Westminster, Colorado

   Deck Nine GAME is an independent video GAME development company that
   focuses on creating GAME that feature narrative storytelling. The
   company's titles include graphic adventures Life Is Strange: Before the
   Storm and Life Is Strange: True Colors.
--
   Asia. That includes news, updates and additional information for the
   brand's many video GAME, from Pokemon GO on mobile to Pokemon Snap for
--
   Location: New York, New York

   Private Division is a GAME publishing company that advocates for small
   GAME developers, providing them with opportunities to successfully
   launch GAME commercially and globally. Some titles published by
   Private Division include Hades from Supergiant GAME, OlliOlli World
   from Roll7 and Disintegration from V1 Interactive.
--
   Wisconsin, which isn't particularly known for its gaming industry, was
   a conscious choice -- one that comes with notable cost-of-living and
   community perks. As for its GAME portfolio, highlights include
   Heretic/Hexen and Soldier of Fortune. It has also notably lent
   assistance to fellow Activision partners Treyarch and Infinity Ward on
--

   pioneer was already getting gamers outside and GPS-scavenging for
   treasure. Geocaching has also nurtured a robust network of forums,
   events and even environmental outreach, encouraging responsible play
--
   Location: San Francisco, California

   Zynga has produced many of the most popular social mobile GAME of all
   time, with titles including Words With Friends, Farmville and Tiny
   Royale. The company's GAME have been played by over 1 billion users,
   leading to offices opening throughout the United States, Canada, the
   United Kingdom and India.
--
   Location: Seattle, Washington

   Famous in the casual GAME market, PopCap made its mark with the
   once-ubiquitous tile-matching Bejeweled series -- which, according to
   its makers, once racked up a sale every 4.3 seconds and has sold in
--
   worlds so intricate that they necessitated the creation of a
   "loremaster" job role. Bethesda Softworks has expanded into just about
   every other genre since then, including sports GAME, strategy GAME,
   shooters and beyond.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsBethesda Softworks is Hiring | View 0 Jobs
--
   Valve catapulted to acclaim and popularity with its very first title,
   the first-person shooter turning point Half-Life. The company also runs
   Steam -- one of the largest GAME stores for PC and Mac -- and has
   launched several hardware products including the Valve Index VR
   platform and Steam Deck, a popular Linux-based gaming handheld. The
   team's early VR breakthroughs infamously helped prompt Mark Zuckerberg
   to buy into the VR GAME
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsValve Corporation is Hiring | View 0 Jobs

--
   Location: Richardson, Texas

   Even the most casual gamers are likely familiar with legacy id titles
   like Wolfenstein 3D (perhaps the ne plus ultra of RPG), DOOM (which
   helped usher in the modern multiplayer model) and QUAKE--all of which
   revolutionized what a PC GAME could be. The company also pioneered the
   shareware distribution model.
   They're Hiring | View 0 Jobsid Software is Hiring | View 0 Jobs
--
   in point: the God of War series, which has earned hundreds of GAME of
   the Year awards; and the internally produced documentary Raising
   Kratos, about the tolls of GAME development.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsSanta Monica Studios is Hiring | View 0
   Jobs
--
   Location: Austin, Texas

   Devolver Digital seeks out and shines a light on GAME from all over
   the planet, usually ones with a firmly offbeat sensibility. Examples
   range from a Swedish-made "violent ballet about friendship,
--


thatgamecompany

   View Profile
--
   Location: Santa Monica, California

   Thatgamecompany's video GAME offerings -- Sky, Journey, Flower and Flow
   -- focus on "meaningful emotional impact" and "human connection." Over
   the years, its GAME have been featured in exhibits at the Smithsonian
   American Art Museum and MoMA.
   They're Hiring | View 0 Jobsthatgamecompany is Hiring | View 0 Jobs
   Margo Steines, Rose Velazquez and Andreas Rekdal contributed reporting
   to this story.
</text>
</page> §


<page="EN-46">
<text>
       (BUTTON) Toggle Categories subsection

     * 1.1In-GAME advertising

     * 1.1.1Static in-GAME advertising

     1.1.2Dynamic in-GAME advertising

     1.2AdverGAME


--


   3.2.3Targeted adverGAME marketing


--
   [ ] Toggle the table of contents

Advertising in video GAME

   [ ] 1 language
--
   [80px-Video-GAME-Controller-Icon-IDV-green-industry.svg.png]
   Part of a series on the
                        Video GAME industry
   Development
     * Producer
--

   Products
     * Video GAME
          + Specialized / alternative-paradigmatic types: Casual
          + Erotic
--
          + Nonviolent
          + Serious
               o Art GAME
               o EduGAME
               o ExerGAME
          + Non-GAME
     __________________________________________________________________

--
   Distribution and monetization
     * Buy-to-play
          + AAA GAME
          + Expansion pack
          + Episodic video GAME
     * Early access
     * Crowdfunding
--
     * Free-to-play
     * Microtransactions
          + In-GAME currency
     * Loot box
          + gacha
--
     __________________________________________________________________

     * Advertising in video GAME
          + in-GAME
          + AdverGAME

   Related
--

   Lists
     * List of video GAME developers
          + Indie
     * List of video GAME publishers
     * List of video GAME industry people
     * List of video GAME websites
     * List of video GAME magazines

     * v
--
     * e

   Advertising in video GAME is the integration of advertising into video
   GAME to promote products, organizations, or viewpoints.^[1]

   There are two major categories of advertising in video GAME: in-GAME
   advertising and adverGAME.^[2] In-GAME advertising shows the player
   advertisements while playing the GAME,^[3] whereas adverGAME are a
   type of GAME created to serve as an advertisement for a brand or
   product.^[4]

   Other methods of advertising in video GAME include in-GAME product
   placement and sponsorship of commercial GAME or other GAME-related
   content.^[5]

Categories[edit]

In-GAME advertising[edit]

   Main article: In-GAME advertising
   [220px-FIFA_International_Soccer.gif] An Adidas billboard is displayed
   in the foreground of the 1994 video GAME FIFA International Soccer
   (also, the electronic board that appears with every goal scored
   sometimes reads "Panasonic").

   In-GAME advertising is similar to product placement in films and
   television, where the advertising content exists within the universe of
   the characters. These forms of product placement are common, which led
   to the advertisement technique being applied to video GAME to match
   evolving media consumption habits.^[6]^[7] According to the
   Entertainment Software Association in 2010, 42% of gamers said they
   play online GAME one or more hours per week.^[8] GAME playing is
   considered active media consumption, which provides a unique
   opportunity for advertisers. The principal advantages of product
   placement in gaming are visibility and notoriety. A single in-GAME
   advertisement may be encountered by the player multiple times, and
   advertisers have an opportunity to ally a brand's image with that of a
   well-received GAME.

   Billboards, storefronts, posters, apparel, vehicles, weapons, fliers,
   sponsored product placement, and the interplay between the player and
   these elements in the GAME allow for a great degree of virtual
   advertisement.^[9] Examples of marketing in video GAME include brand
   integration, embedded marketing, recruitment tools, edutainment, and
   traditional in-GAME advertising.

   According to Forbes, in-GAME advertising is expected to reach $7.2
   billion in 2016.^[10] Unlike television commercials and digital ads,
   which can be avoided by using DVRs and ad-blocking software,
   advertisements embedded within video GAME cannot be bypassed. A more
   recent example of in-GAME advertising is Google's placement of video
   ads between levels of GAME. These ads are usually branded inline, and
   TechCrunch reports that they have the potential to gain fast traction
   in Google's AdMob Service.^[11]

Static in-GAME advertising[edit]

   Static in-GAME advertisements are embedded into the video GAME
   program.^[9] Static ads can be used in the story-line of the GAME and
   players can interact with them.^[9] The creation of the ads can take
   from a month or years to reach the public.^[9] These ads do not require
--
   sportswear in FIFA International Soccer.

Dynamic in-GAME advertising[edit]

   Dynamic in-GAME advertisements are embedded in online video GAME that
   can be changed at any time by the GAME programmers.^[9]^[6] Examples of
   this type of advertisement would be virtual billboards and updates that
   introduce new items into the GAME like clothing brands to dress
   characters or different cars.^[6] Dynamics ads are different from
   static GAME because companies can provide ads for specific audiences
   or demographics after the video GAME has been purchased by the
   consumer.^[6] This way companies can follow the consumer habits and
   provide ads that can address a certain context.^[6] GAME developers
   then can dynamically change the virtual ads spaces embedded into the
   GAME to display the ads.^[7] Players have a limited interaction with
   these ads compared to static in-GAME ads.^[9] These ads required active
   Internet connection for the GAME company to showcase the ads.^[9]
   Dynamic ads can accommodate time sensitive campaigns and can be shown
   immediately.^[9] These ads can also provide data to show how well
   campaigns are doing unlike static in-GAME ads.^[9]

AdverGAME[edit]

   Main article: AdverGAME

   Video GAME that are expressly commissioned to promote a product or
   service are referred to as "adverGAME", a portmanteau of "advertising"
   and "gaming". This term was coined in January 2000 by Anthony
   Giallourakis and later mentioned by Wired's "Jargon Watch" column in
   2001.^[12] AdverGAME have been developed for different platforms
   including company websites, gaming consoles, and more recently, mobile
   applications and social media platforms.^[13] With the growth of the
   Internet, adverGAME have proliferated, often becoming the most visited
   aspect of brand websites and becoming an integrated part of brand media
   planning. The adverGAME sector reached $207 million in 2007.^[14]

   The earliest custom video GAME featuring integrated brand messages
   were developed and distributed on floppy disk.^[15] These GAME were
   distributed for free, often bundled with other products from the
   company advertised for. The first floppy disk adverGAME were developed
   to serve dual purposes--as promotional incentives that drive response
   and as media that deliver awareness. American Home Foods Chef Boyardee
   issued one of the earliest floppy-disk adverGAME.^[16] Some brands,
   like Kool-Aid and Pepsi, created early adverGAME on gaming platforms.
   They created adverGAME for the Atari 2600 and gave out promotional
   copies.^[15] The first in-box CD-ROM cereal box adverGAME are General
   Mills's Chex Quest (promoting the Chex brand) and General Mills's
   All-Star baseball (starring Trix Rabbit and his friends playing
   baseball against Major League teams and stars).

   Commercial examples include adverGAME funded by Pepsi, 7 Up, NFL,
   Formula One, and Burger King. Political and military examples of
   below-the-line (BTL) adverGAME include recruitment tools like
   America's Army, intended to boost recruitment for the United States
   Army, and Special Force, intended to promote Muslim resistance to the
   state of Israel. Educational advergaming is closely related to the
   Serious GAME initiative and falls under either Edumarket gaming or
   edutainment. Examples include Food Force (made by the United Nations's
   World Food Program) and Urban Jungle, an educational traffic
--
   "link-chasing" and is designed to foster viral marketing.

   Examples of through-the-line (TTL) advertising in GAME include
   "link-chases," ARGs, and viral marketing.

   TTL marketing is a form of advertising in video GAME that involve the
   use of URL hyperlinks within the GAME designed to induce the player to
   visit a web page which then contains BTL advertisements. The technique
   used to tempt the player into visiting the intended URL varies from
   GAME to GAME.^[17] In GAME like Pikmin 2, the player is given a
   cryptic message with an accompanying URL designed to pique their
   curiosity. In GAME such as Enter the Matrix, Year Zero, I Love Bees,
   and Lost Experience, URLs make up a part of the background of the GAME
   such that certain plot details can only be learned by following the
   link. The knowledge of such plot details are typically not required to
   complete the GAME, but deepen the GAME story-line for players who
   follow the links. Websites of this nature often lead players on to
   other links which again lead to further links, thus earning these GAME
   the label "link-chases". Although TTL advertising can be an enjoyable
   experience for players, excessive "link-chasing" can feel obstructive
   and discourage them from diving deeper into a GAME's story-line. In
   another form, the URL might be part of a stage where a player can see
   it but it does not affect the plot. For example, in Super Monkey Ball
--

   In 2019, a survey conducted by deltaDNA found that 94% of free-to-play
   video GAME developers incorporate some form of in-GAME
   advertising.^[18] Among those, the most common type of advertisement
   were rewarded videos, which are videos that players can watch to earn
   in-GAME prizes.^[18] Rewarded videos are shown to be more effective
   than forced advertising; players are 23% more likely to buy products
   and 18% more likely to make in-app purchases when shown rewarded videos
   instead of forced advertising.^[19]

   The reaction to in-GAME advertising has been overall positive, with 73%
   of players being happy with ad-funded GAME.^[19]

   The effectiveness of advertising in video GAME is debated by
   scholars.^[3]^[20]^[21] Brand name recognition in sports GAME has been
   shown to be low among college students, although players did retain
   fragments of the brand names.^[3] Another study found that 35% of
   players could recall advertised brands in car racing GAME.^[20]
   Interactive in-GAME advertisements, such as brand products that are
   used in GAME, are shown to produce greater brand awareness and more
   positive brand attitudes than passively added advertisements, such as
   posters or billboards.^[21]
--
  Mobile[edit]

   Mobile in-GAME advertisements are advertisements within mobile GAME
   that lead the user to the website or installation page of the
   advertised product or software upon being clicked.^[22] Mobile gaming
--
   ads, video ads, and interactive ads. Banner ads will display on
   portions of the screen while the user continues to interact with the
   mobile GAME.^[23] Pop-up ads will display the advertisement on the
   entire mobile screen, typically disrupting gameplay; they appear
   between loading screens or when in-GAME milestones are completed, only
   allowing users to close the pop-up ad once a timer runs out.^[24] Video
   ads will display a video advertisement of the advertised products on
   the entire mobile screen.^[25] Interactive ads are a form of pop-up ad
   that allows the user to interact with the advertisement.^[26] For
   instance, Candy Crush Saga, a free-to-play mobile GAME, uses playable
   ads to advertise their GAME on other mobile applications and provide
   potential customers with a demo of their GAME.^[27] In 2019, mobile
   advertising contributed $39.9 billion in revenue to the mobile gaming
   industry.^[28]
--

   The Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) assigns ratings based on
   a detailed questionnaire about the GAME's content and a gameplay clip
   provided by the publisher.^[29] Possible rating categories are
   "Everyone", "Everyone 10+", "Teen", "Mature 17+", and "Adults Only
   18+".^[30] Ratings are supplemented with content descriptions, such as
   "Blood", "Partial Nudity", and "Use of Alcohol".^[30] All updates and
   downloadable content (DLC), including both static and dynamic in-GAME
   advertising, are expected to be compliant with the GAME's rating and
   descriptors, though DLC can be submitted for its own, independent
   rating if necessary.^[31]

   If any post-release content is determined to be incompatible with the
   rating of the base GAME, publishers are required to update all physical
   and digital displays of the rating.^[29] In the case of physical GAME,
   where it is difficult to make these modifications once a GAME has
   shipped, sanctions and fines may be levied on the publisher.^[29]

   The ESRB also includes an Advertising Review Council (ARC) that
   oversees the marketing of video GAME in the United States and
   Canada.^[32] Cross-promotion, including when a video GAME is promoted
   within another, falls under this umbrella.^[32] The ARC ensures that
   the GAME being advertised is accurately represented and is not being
   marketed toward parties below the suitable age range.^[32]

--

   The University of Bath's Institute for Policy Research researched the
   use of adverGAME in marketing to children in the United Kingdom.^[33]
   The report, published in June 2014, suggested that children as old as
   15 did not recognize that adverGAME were adverts and had their food
   choices influenced without their conscious awareness.^[34] Based on
   these findings, the University called for "urgent government action to
   protect children from the subconscious effects of adverGAME."^[33]

  United States legislation[edit]
--
   stage.^[39]^[40]^[41]^[42]^[43]^[44]

    Targeted adverGAME marketing[edit]

   A bill was recently introduced in the Senate that proposes restrictions
   on the use of information obtained through adverGAME to market to
   children. Some GAME ask users to provide personal information, such as
   name, gender, and age, then display targeted advertisements based on
   these characteristics. This bill would prevent companies from using
   this information to change the GAME to target certain age brackets.

Examples[edit]
--
  Food and beverages[edit]

     * Mattel's M Network division released the "promoGAME" Kool-Aid Man
       for the Atari 2600 and Intellivision in 1983. The GAME was
       originally available only via mail order by sending in UPC symbols
       from Kool-Aid containers, but later became available for retail
       purchase.^[45]^[46]
     * Purina had a mail-in offer for the Atari 2600 GAME Chase the Chuck
       Wagon for customers of Chuck Wagon dog food in 1983.^[46]
     * Johnson &amp Johnson released an Atari 2600 GAME called Tooth
       Protectors in 1983, also by mail-order.^[46]
     * In 1999, Pepsiman was released by developer KID in only Japan for
--
     * In November 2006, Burger King began selling three advergaming Xbox
       and Xbox 360 titles for an additional $3.99 ($4.99 in Canada) each
       with any value meal. Known as the King GAME series, these GAME
       include Sneak King (Xbox, 2006), PocketBike Racer (Xbox, 2006), and
       Big Bumpin' (Xbox 360, 2006). They were all developed by Blitz
       GAME' Blitz Arcade Division and were the best selling GAME of the
       2006 holiday season.^[47] More than 3.2 million copies are believed
       to have been sold in the US and Canada alone.
     * Life Savers launched the web's first major advergaming portal,
       Candystand,^[48] in March 1997. The website was acquired from the
       Wrigley Company by Funtank in August 2008 and hosts adverGAME for
       a broad range of brands.
     * Doritos sponsored the adverGAME Doritos Crash Course, which was
       released on the Xbox 360 in December 2010.^[49] The GAME included
       fifteen 2.5D obstacle courses for the player's Xbox Avatar to
       navigate.^[49] The GAME's sequel, Doritos Crash Course 2, was
       released on Xbox Live Arcade in May 2013.^[50]
     * In 2011, Sony Interactive Entertainment and Subway launched an ad
       campaign that allowed players to access the multiplayer mode of
       Uncharted 3 a month prior to its release date.^[51] Players could
       earn in-GAME items such as a Subway uniform or sandwich.^[51] The
       main character of the Uncharted series also explicitly references
       the Subway five dollar footlong.^[51]
--
  Movies and entertainment[edit]

     * Cineplex Entertainment features an adverGAME open to the public,
       known as Top Popper during non-contest periods and Peel and Pop
       during contest periods. In the cinemas, there is a TimePlay
       adverGAME that plays before the show.^[citation needed]
     * Fortnite and Marvel Entertainment teamed up in 2018 to promote
       Avengers: Infinity War by bringing Thanos, the film's antagonist,
       into the battle royale GAME.^[53] A limited-time GAME mode allowed
       one player at a time to become Thanos, giving them several new
       abilities and a regenerating shield.^[53]
--
     * Mario &amp Sonic at the Olympic GAME (2007) was a collaboration
       between Nintendo and Sega that put their mascots head-to-head in a
       series of Olympic events.^[54]^[55] The GAME was developed for both
       the Nintendo Wii and the Nintendo 3DS and received several
       sequels.^[54]^[55]^[56]
--
     * BMW's BMW M3 Challenge (online, 2008) includes both ATL- and
       BTL-form advergaming. BMW worked with 10tacle Studios^[59] to
       repurpose the GT Legends GAME, a race simulation GAME, to showcase
       the 2008 BMW M3.
     * In 2008, President Obama's campaign paid for billboard ads in the
       online GAME Burnout Paradise to promote his presidential bid.^[60]
     * Adventurize.com launched the first advertising network to display
       ads inside of Minecraft servers in 2013.^[61]
--
       automaker's cars to Mario Kart 8 as drivable vehicles via a DLC
       pack.^[62]
     * In 2014 and 2015, British GAME retailer GAME released a pair of
       adverGAME, Christmas Shopper Simulator and Christmas Shopper
       Simulator 2: Black Friday, to coincide with the Christmas shopping
       season.
     * In 2017, Square Enix and Nissin Foods partnered to launch an ad
       campaign to bring Cup Noodle-branded DLC to Final Fantasy XV, with
       in-GAME items including a hat shaped like a Cup Noodle cup.^[63]

See also[edit]

     * In-GAME advertising
     * GAME advertising
     * Interactive advertising
--
    1. ^ Terlutter, Ralf; Capella, Michael L. (2013). "The Gamification of
       Advertising: Analysis and Research Directions of In-GAME
       Advertising, AdverGAME, and Advertising in Social Network GAME".
       Journal of Advertising. 42 (2-3): 95-112.
       doi:10.1080/00913367.2013.774610. S2CID 144798265.
    2. ^ "Advertisers pay for video GAME / Product placement tradition no
       longer free ride for business". SFGATE. 25 July 2005.
    3. ^ ^a ^b ^c Yang, Moonhee; Roskos-Ewoldsen, David R.; Dinu, Lucian;
--
    5. ^ "Six of the Best Product Placements in Video GAME". The
       Guardian. 13 July 2014. Retrieved 2020-04-02.
    6. ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d ^e Hansson, Ludvig. "Dynamic In-GAME Advertising: Not
       loved but Certainly Tolerated". Retrieved 2020-04-02.
    7. ^ ^a ^b Raatikainen, Olli. "Dynamic In-GAME Advertising in 3D
       Digital GAME: A Threat and a Possibility". Retrieved 2020-04-02.
    8. ^ ""AdverGAME, Viral GAME, and online flash GAME design" Front
       Network". Frontnetwork.net. Retrieved 2010-06-23.
--
   10. ^ Tassi, Paul. "Analyst Says Video GAME Advertising Will Double by
       2016". Forbes. Retrieved 2020-04-03.
   11. ^ "Google is launching playable in-GAME ads". TechCrunch. 15 March
       2018. Archived from the original on 2022-05-03. Retrieved
       2020-04-03.
--
   15. ^ ^a ^b "How Advergaming Works". HowStuffWorks. 2007-03-13.
       Retrieved 2020-04-03.
   16. ^ Justin Davis (2006-01-16). "Dunkin' for AdverGAME".
       Gamedaily.com. Retrieved 2010-06-23.
   17. ^ "Everything You Need to Know About ATL, BTL and TTL Advertising".
       Business 2 Community. Retrieved 2018-07-04.
   18. ^ ^a ^b "94% of mobile devs use ads in their free-to-play GAME:
       deltaDNA's in-GAME advertising study 2019". Pocket Gamer. Retrieved
       2020-04-02.
   19. ^ ^a ^b Zins, Amelia (2017-08-22). "GAME On: How do gamers feel
       about advertising?". facebook. Retrieved 2020-04-02.
   20. ^ ^a ^b "Player performance and in GAME advertising retention".
       Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Advances in
       Computer Entertainment Technology.
--
   32. ^ ^a ^b ^c "Advertising Principles and Guidelines". ESRB Ratings.
       Retrieved 2020-04-02.
   33. ^ ^a ^b "Call for new rules on 'adverGAME'". www.bath.ac.uk.
       Retrieved 2020-04-01.
   34. ^ Hang, H. (December 2012). "AdverGAME: it's not child's play"
       (PDF). Family and Parenting Institute. Retrieved 2014-07-08.
   35. ^ "Complying with COPPA: Frequently Asked Questions". Federal Trade
--
       Video Computer System. MIT Press. p. 124. ISBN 978-0-262-01257-7.
   46. ^ ^a ^b ^c Bogost, Ian (August 5, 2011). How to Do Things with
       VideoGAME (Electronic Mediations). University of Minnesota Press.
       p. 68. ISBN 978-0-8166-7647-7.
   47. ^ "Gaming Nexus". Archived from the original on 2007-09-30.
--
       2020-04-02.
   57. ^ ^a ^b Webb, Kevin. "Microsoft is letting Nintendo add a beloved,
       classic video GAME character to 'Super Smash Bros. Ultimate'".
       Business Insider. Retrieved 2020-04-02.
   58. ^ ^a ^b Sarkar, Samit (2019-09-04). "Banjo-Kazooie coming today to
--
     * e

   Video GAME genres

     * List of video GAME genres

   Action
--
     * Turn-based tactics
          + Artillery
     * WarGAME
          + Grand strategy

--
     * Music
          + Rhythm
     * Non-GAME
     * Party
     * Photography
--

   Themes
     * AdverGAME
     * Bishojo
     * Christian
--
     * Indie
          + Doujin soft
          + Fan GAME

   Technology
--
     * Casual
          + Hypercasual
     * Emergent gameplay
     * FMV
     * Kaizo
     * Masocore
     * Nonlinear gameplay
          + Open world
          + Sandbox
     * Side-scrolling
     * Twitch gameplay
     * Vertically scrolling

   Other
     * MiniGAME
     * Mixed reality GAME
          + Pervasive GAME
     * Online gambling
     * Toys-to-life
     * Video GAME clone
     * Video GAME modding
     * Virtual economy
     * Virtual world
--

   Retrieved from
   "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Advertising_in_video_GAME&amp
   oldid=1185463361"

   Categories:
     * Advergaming
     * AdverGAME
     * Advergaming companies
     * Video GAME types
     * Propaganda techniques by medium
</text>
</page> §

</lang>
