   teambuilding.com site logo
     * View Experiences
     * About

   (BUTTON) Toggle navigation

   Home » Resources » Team Building Games
   Updated: December 29, 2023

Team Building Games for Adults: 36 BEST in 2023

   You found our list of the best team building games for adults.

   Team building games are competitive activities that boost productivity
   and bring your team closer together at the office. For example, murder
   mysteries, escape games, and people Bingo. The purpose of these games
   is to give your employees time to bond and connect, which helps lead to
   better communication, job satisfaction, and retention. These games are
   also known as “team building activities.”

   These games are similar to team building exercises, team building
   events, team meeting games, and office games. The activities are an
   offline equivalent of online team building games.
   team-building-games

   This list includes:
     * fun team building games for adults
     * free team building games without materials
     * corporate team building games for the office
     * team bonding games
     * team games for work
     * office team games
     * DIY team building games

   So, check out the list!

List of team building games

   From games that keep you on your feet to ones that test your knowledge,
   these surprisingly fun team building games for adults are sure to be a
   hit at your office.

1. Forensic Sketch Artist

   Forensic Sketch Artist is one of the top engaging office team games
   that tests your team’s communication and drawing skills. Split your
   team into two and set the scene by explaining that a robbery has just
   occurred. Appoint a forensic sketch artist for each team and name the
   other team members as witnesses to the robbery. Then, out of the sketch
   artist’s view, show the rest of the team a face created by a random
   face generator. The witnesses must describe the face to the sketch
   artist, who must try to recreate the face based on descriptions from
   the team. The sketch closest to the generated face wins!

2. Five Clicks Away

   Similar to Six Degrees of Separation, Five Clicks Away is an online
   team building game where team members attempt to connect two seemingly
   unrelated Wikipedia pages in five clicks. To begin playing, select two
   topics that seem to have nothing in common, such as BTS and the Battle
   of Mine Creek. Then, ask your team to use Wikipedia internal links from
   the first page to navigate to the second. Five Clicks Away is a game
   that both educates your team on obscure topics and hones your team’s
   research skills.

   Want our best tips for building happier teams?

   Enter your email to get started.
   ____________________

   HP
   ____________________
   Submit

3. Random Storyboard

   Random Storyboard is a storytelling activity for teams. Each
   participant brings a photo or drawing. Then, a leader splits the group
   into teams. Teams must arrange their photos and come up with a sensible
   story that ties all these disparate photos together. Each team takes a
   turn presenting their story to a judge, who then picks a winner.

4. Team Building Bingo

   Team Building Bingo is one of the most exciting DIY team building games
   for learning more about the people you work with. Prior to playing,
   brainstorm a series of quirky experiences, organize your thoughts on
   individualized “bingo boards,” and distribute the boards to your team.
   During the game, players ask each other if they have experienced what
   is written in the spaces. If a player has had the experience, then that
   person signs the corresponding space on the asker’s bingo card. Like
   traditional bingo, the first player who collects enough signatures to
   form a horizontal, vertical, or diagonal line across the board wins the
   round

   Here is a Bingo card generator you can use for your game:

   And here is a full guide to icebreaker Bingo.

5. Plant Babies

   With the mental health benefits of plants becoming more well-known,
   Plant Babies is an office game that encourages your team to grow plants
   at their desks. For this game, team members should each adopt a plant
   to care for. Then, as the Plant Babies surpass certain milestones, such
   as growing to certain heights or developing flowers, team members
   receive points. The team member who earns the most points by the end of
   every three-month period wins. Plant Babies invites your team to
   cultivate nurturing spirits and lets your coworkers create a more
   enjoyable office environment together.

6. Mystery Bag

   If you are looking for a game that you can easily play with supplies
   from around the office, then check out Mystery Bag!

   Here is how to play the game:
    1. Fill a bag with several random objects.
    2. Split the group into teams.
    3. Give a mystery bag to each team.
    4. Teams need to use each item in their bag to come up with a sketch.
    5. Participants perform their sketches, and a judge gives a prize to
       the best one.

   This creative challenge brings out participants’ teamwork and
   imaginative skills.

7. Post-It Picasso

   Post-It Picasso is a fun and collaborative art adventure!

   Here is how to play the game:
    1. Choose a simple piece of art to recreate.
    2. Buy Post-It notes that match the painting’s colors.
    3. Give each color to a different team member.
    4. Set a timer for 15 to 30 minutes.
    5. Participants must place their Post-Its on a large wall and try to
       recreate the piece of art.
    6. When time is up, compare the Post-It art to the original.

   This game is a creative and interactive way for teams to express
   themselves. Plus, this game teaches collaboration and communication
   skills.

8. Office Chair Basketball

   Office Chair Basketball is an amusing game where teams go head-to-head
   in a friendly basketball competition. To set the game up, gather enough
   chairs for each player, a small basketball hoop, and a small
   basketball. Then, split the players into two teams. Players sit in the
   office chairs and scoot across the court to shoot the basketball. Teams
   score points for each basket. Whoever earns the most points wins! This
   game is a fun way to blend sports and office comfort for an
   entertaining team building experience.

   Note: Be sure the basketball “court” is large enough that players have
   enough room to easily scoot around without running into one another.

9. Paper Bag Fashion Show

   In the Paper Bag Fashion Show game, teams become fashion designers for
   the day!

   Here is how to play this game:
    1. Gather supplies like paper bags, newspaper, bubble wrap, tape, and
       string.
    2. Set a timer for 15 minutes.
    3. Participants must use the materials to make their best
       one-of-a-kind outfit.
    4. After the time is up, have participants model their creations.
    5. Give a prize to the best outfit!

   Optionally, you can give prizes out for more than one category. For
   instance, participants could win awards for being the most creative,
   the most high fashion, or the funniest. This lighthearted activity is a
   great way for teams to express their creativity and have fun.

10. No Context Pictures

   No Context Pictures is a fun indoor team building game to discover more
   about your coworkers’ personal lives. Prior to the game, ask your team
   to submit an eccentric photo with no context. Then, post the photos in
   a place where everyone on the team can see them. Ask team members to
   submit short explanations of what is happening in the photos. The
   person who originally submitted the photo votes on which story they
   like the most. No Context Pictures is a great team building game
   because it helps paint a more complete picture of your coworkers by
   showing a different side of their lives that may not be visible in the
   workplace.

   Here are more problem solving games.

11. Guess the Film Buff

   Guess the Film Buff is an entertaining game. Prior to the game, team
   members submit photos of DVDs or home movie collections. If a team
   member does not have a physical film collection, then ask them to send
   a screenshot of their Netflix “My List.” Then, display the film
   collection pictures in a central location and have team members submit
   guesses for who the owners are by the end of the day. The person who
   guesses the most film collections correctly wins. Guess the Film Buff
   is a great game for teams because your team can learn about each
   others’ tastes, while also picking up new suggestions on what to watch
   next.

12. What’s On My Desk?

   What’s On My Desk? is an office game where team members test how well
   they know each other. For this game, request team members submit photos
   of their desk setup. Once the photos are in, post the pictures in a
   shared space where everyone can see them. Then, ask your team to turn
   in guesses on whose desk is whose. The person who guesses the most
   number of desks correctly wins. What’s On My Desk? is a great game
   because your team can become more familiar with each other through desk
   memorabilia.

13. My Next Meal

   If your team is hungry for new recipes to try, then My Next Meal is the
   activity for you to try. At the beginning of the week, a different
   member of the team submits a photo of what is inside their
   refrigerator. Then, other team members present creative recipes using
   the ingredients seen in the photo. Everyone votes for the best recipe,
   and the recipe with the most votes wins. My Next Meal reduces the
   pressures of meal prep and also helps bring team members together
   through a love of food.

14. Team Film Festival

   Has your team ever considered dabbling in low-budget filmmaking? Based
   on the 48 Hour Film Project, Team Film Festival is a DIY team building
   game that challenges your team to produce a film in 48 hours. Prior to
   the festival, split your employees up into filmmaking teams. Reveal the
   festival’s overall theme and assign genres to each team using a random
   draw. Give the teams 48 hours to write, shoot, and edit a five-minute
   film. Then, invite everyone to watch the short films together by
   holding a film festival. After screening all the films, ask team
   members to vote for categories such as “Best Film”, “Best Actor”, “Best
   Actress”, and “Best Screenplay” and give rewards accordingly. Team Film
   Festival is an amazing team building opportunity because filmmaking is
   a team activity that requires a lot of planning and cooperation, which
   are treasured skills in the workplace.

15. Where in the World?

   Where in the World? is a game that tests teams’ geography and travel
   knowledge.

   Here’s how to play:
    1. Go to GeoGuessr.com.
    2. Start a game.
    3. The browser will show a random destination.
    4. Players must try to guess where it is.

   For bonus points, you can ask teammates to wager whether any of their
   coworkers have visited that city or country and to guess who.

16. Secret Gifter

   Based on Secret Santa, Secret Gifter is a gift exchange game that you
   can play any time of the year. Players submit names and receive a
   subject to buy gifts for. To keep gifts fair and of similar quality,
   set a price limit and sponsor the purchase as a company. Then, on the
   designated day, publicly exchange gifts. During the gift exchange, team
   members guess who their Secret Gifter is. If a team member guesses
   correctly, then they win! Secret Gifter is a great game because it
   encourages team members to learn more about each other to buy the
   perfect gift. Plus, who does not like to receive a fun surprise?

17. Workout Challenge

   Inspired by the “See 10, Do 10″ viral Instagram challenge, Workout
   Challenge is a game for teams that encourages your people to invest in
   physical fitness. Every day, a team member starts by recording a video
   of themselves doing ten push-ups and sends it to a group chat, tagging
   another team member. The tagged team member then has to do ten push-ups
   and tag someone else, and so on and so forth. Anyone who neglects to do
   ten push-ups by the end of the day loses and must buy everyone else a
   coffee. The Workout Challenge is a fantastic team building game because
   it keeps your team active. Staying active is especially important since
   many office jobs require people to sit for long periods of time.

   Here is a list of team building workout ideas.

18. Pub-like Trivia

   Pub-like Trivia is a stellar corporate team building game that tests
   your team’s knowledge, even if your workplace does not allow alcohol.
   First, prepare a list of trivia questions. The best trivia questions
   span a variety of subjects and are little-known facts. After coming up
   with your questions, divide players into teams. Teams can privately
   discuss answers before responding. The team that answers the most
   questions correctly wins. This is a great game for team bonding because
   teams need to collaborate and pool knowledge to succeed.

   Here is a list of the best trivia questions and a list of
   work-appropriate team names.

19. Guess the Baby

   Guess the Baby is a charming game that asks team members to deduce
   whose baby picture is whose. Before the game begins, ask team members
   to submit a baby or toddler photo. Then, put the baby pictures up where
   everyone can see them and have team members submit a form or use
   Post-it notes to record guesses. The team member who correctly names
   the most baby photos wins. Guess the Baby brings the team together by
   inviting them to share their childhoods with fellow team members.

   Here are more connection games to play.

20. Heads Up!

   Heads Up! is an app-based party game that can also be fun at the
   office. Created by Ellen DeGeneres, you can play Heads Up! with any
   number of people, which makes it suitable for both large and small
   teams. First, players select a deck and then a team member holds a
   phone to their forehead so the screen is facing outward. A word will
   appear on the screen and the other players will give hints to help the
   team member with the phone guess what the word is. Heads Up! is an
   exhilarating teamwork game because it creates a fun situation where
   your team must work together to triumph.

   Check out Heads up!.

   Here are more hybrid activities you can do.

21. Codenames

   Codenames is traditionally an in-person board game. However, there is
   also an online Codenames that makes for a great team building game for
   remote teams. At the beginning of the game, everyone can see a series
   of cards with words on them. The game then divides players into two
   teams, and each team nominates a spymaster. The spymaster’s job is to
   get their teammates to guess the words marked with their team color.
   The team that guesses all their cards first wins the game. Codenames is
   a fun team building game because your team must work together to
   succeed.

   Here is an entire list of team building board games.

List of free team building games without materials

   There are many team building games that don’t require materials. You
   just need a group of people and a few simple rules to guide your games.

22. My Superhero Backstory

   My Superhero Backstory tests your team’s creativity by having team
   members invent fun superhero-like origin stories for coworkers. These
   stories should describe how the team member came to work for your
   organization and are based on true events. Then, team members vote for
   the best backstory. My Superhero Backstory is an effective game for
   teams because it builds your team’s mythology and creates inside jokes
   that help team members bond.

   Here are more fun improv games for groups.

23. Never Have I Ever

   A classic game often played at camp, teams can also play Never Have I
   Ever at the office. To start, players hold up five fingers. Then, in a
   circle, players name something that they have never done before. For
   example, “Never have I ever baked banana bread.” Any team member who
   has had the named experience puts a finger down. The last person still
   holding up fingers by the end of the game is the winner. Through Never
   I Have Ever, players learn many interesting and surprising things about
   their coworkers.

   Here is a prompt generator to use for your game:

   --
   (neverhaveiever) ✨ Generate Prompt ✨

24. Silent Interview

   Silent Interview is a unique team building game where teams conduct a
   job interview without using any words. To start, pair up two
   participants and have one ask the other interview questions. The
   interviewee must answer questions using only gestures, expressions, and
   nonverbal communication. Meanwhile, the team tries to guess the
   “candidate’s” qualifications based on these silent interactions. At the
   end of the interview, the team will decide if they would hire this
   candidate or not. This game is a fun and challenging way to improve
   communication skills and teamwork in a nontraditional setting.

25. Number of Things in Common

   Number of Things in Common is a twist on the game “Something in
   Common.” In the original game, teammates are looking for traits they
   all share. In this version of the game, players go one step further and
   look for qualities that a certain number of them have in common.

   For instance, if your group has four members, then you must find the
   following:
     * Something all four have in common
     * Something three out of four have in common
     * Something two out of four have in common
     * Something that none of you have in common (for example, no one has
       the same favorite food)

   Then, share your best finds with the rest of the group.

   This version of the game requires slightly more discussion and strategy
   than Something in Common.

26. Popular Opinions

   Popular Opinions is a game that encourages teammates to guess how the
   majority of their coworkers will answer. The game is simple. A leader
   gives a question, and players must answer not with their own personal
   preferences but with the answer they believe will be the most popular
   among their peers.

   For example, if the question is “What is your favorite drink to order
   at happy hour?” and you know that your group frequents the Mexican
   cantina down the street, then you might answer “margarita.”

   You can play in teams and come to a group consensus.

27. ABC Hunt

   ABC Hunt is an amusing indoor team building game that gets your virtual
   team out of their seats. In this game, a host names three random
   letters of the alphabet, and the other team members scramble to find
   objects beginning with each letter. The person who finds three objects
   the fastest wins. ABC Hunt is also a versatile DIY team building game
   since teams can play it remotely and at the office.

   Here is a list with more fun word games to play.

28. Pitch Me Your Business

   If you want to spark your team’s entrepreneurial spirit, then Pitch Me
   Your Business is a wonderful game to try. For this game, team members
   have 15 minutes to come up with a basic business plan for an
   enterprise. Then, team members will present the business idea to a
   designated “investor.” The person who dreams up the most intriguing
   business wins. Pitch Me Your Business is a smart team building game
   without materials because managers can informally evaluate team
   leadership and entrepreneurial skills through this game.

   Here are more competitive team building games to try.

29. Line Game

   The Line Game brings teams together by showing colleagues unexpected
   commonalities. Before initiating the game, create a list of experiences
   that underscore the commonalities your team members may have, ordering
   the list from lighthearted to more serious. Then, gather your team and
   have team members keep track of every experience. At the end of the
   game, collect your team’s responses and display the results, showing
   your team how much they have in common.

30. Ambassadors

   Ambassadors is a lively game where team members act as ambassadors for
   foreign countries. After assigning countries to players using a random
   country generator, each ambassador must describe the assigned country
   without revealing the country’s name. The winner is the player who
   guesses the most countries correctly. Ambassadors is a great game for
   team building because it is educational and requires your team to
   exercise creative and communication skills.

31. Work Limericks

   Limericks are a whimsical form of poetry with a distinct rhythm. In
   Work Limericks, teams use creative muscles to write limericks based on
   work experiences. After familiarizing your team with guidelines on how
   to write limericks, give everyone a period of time to compose
   limericks. Then, have your team vote on which limericks are their
   favorites. The limerick with the most votes wins. Work Limericks is an
   excellent game because it lets your team exercise creativity and share
   creations with others.

32. Hangman

   A game you’ve probably played as a child, Hangman, can also be
   effective for team building. Not only is your team already familiar
   with the rules, but Hangman also expands your team’s vocabulary and
   establishes shared references that can be great future conversation
   starters. Also, Hangman is exceptional for team building because it
   unites the team by pushing your coworkers to work together to
   successfully guess the word.

33. Alphabet Chain

   Alphabet Chain is a terrific game for teams who wish to increase
   vocabularies. In this game, your team first settles on a topic. Then,
   team members must name words that fit in that topic. However, every
   word proposed needs to begin with the last letter of the previous one.
   If a team member is unable to think of a suitable word and breaks the
   chain, then that person must withdraw. The winner of the game is the
   last person still remaining. Since Alphabet Chain only requires an
   expansive vocabulary to play, no materials are needed, making it an
   easy game to start with.

34. Dance Off

   Dance Off is a fun game that lets your team express themselves through
   dance. As the name suggests, the objective of Dance Off is for your
   team to compete and see who the best dancer is. Create a playlist of
   danceable tunes and clear a space for your team to move freely. Then,
   have your team make a circle and begin playing music. Each team member
   gets a few minutes to show off moves in the center of the circle.
   Everyone votes for the most impressive dancer, and whoever gets the
   most votes wins. Dance Off lets your team cut loose and stay active,
   which is great for stress relief.

35. The Human Knot

   The Human Knot is one of the most popular free team building games. To
   play, teammates stand in a circle and grab the hands of coworkers
   across the way. Then, participants must detangle their arms without
   breaking their grip. This game improves problem-solving and
   communication skills among groups. The exercise requires no supplies or
   costs. Best of all, you can do the challenge repeatedly because the
   knot will be different each time, and new team members may have
   different approaches.

   Learn how to do The Human Knot.

36. Two Truths and One Lie

   Two Truths and One Lie is another fun way to learn more about your
   colleagues. Best of all, this game requires no materials! In this game,
   a team member presents two true statements and one lie. The other
   members have to guess which statement is the lie. If any of the team
   members guess correctly, then that person earns a point. However, if no
   one guesses correctly, then the person who presented the statements
   wins a point. The winner is the person with the most points by the end
   of the game.

   Here are more quick icebreaker games.

Final Thoughts

   Team building games are a great way to liven up the workplace and do
   something fun with your team. And it’s not all fun and games because
   there are a lot of benefits of team building, too.

   Next, check out our list of morning meeting games for employees, these
   fun question games, and this list of games for large groups.

   We also have a list of ideas for employee engagement, a list of summer
   team building ideas for work, ideas for executive team building, one
   for outdoor team building, and one for indoor team building.

   For small groups, check out these ideas for small group team building,
   these fun group activities, and these quick team building ideas.

FAQ: Team building games

   Unsure about what constitutes a team building game or why you should
   engage in one? Here are some common questions about team building games
   to help you.

What are team building games?

   Team building games are competitions whose main goal is to promote
   productivity and cultivate friendships between team members. These
   games are usually low-stakes and focus on fun, and are not cutthroat
   matches. These activities are also known as “team bonding games,” “team
   games for work,” and “team building activities.”

Why is playing team building games important?

   Playing team building games and doing team building activities is way
   for people to interact in a fun, social way. These interactions have
   create strong connections, improve communication and more.

What are the benefits of playing team building games?

   The benefits of playing team building games include:
     * Fostering friendships among team members
     * Underscoring company culture
     * Bringing out hidden talents
     * Driving team cooperation
     * Creating shared memories
     * Boosting team morale
     * Inspiring team productivity
     * Strengthening communication
     * Honing conflict resolution
     * Breaking up the work week monotony
     * Encouraging new skill formation
     * Stimulating creativity

   These benefits are all great reasons why your team should invest in
   team building games. Not only will your team work better, but your
   coworkers will also have fun and be happier while working.

What are some examples of team building games?

   Some examples of team building games are:
     * ABC Hunt
     * Fancy Dress Day
     * Guess the Baby
     * No Context Picture
     * Team Charity Drive
     * What’s On My Desk?
     * Team Film Festival

What are the best corporate team building games for the office?

   The best corporate team building games for the office are:
     * Murder Mystery Party
     * Productivity Tracker
     * People Bingo
     * Pub-like Trivia
     * Pitch Me Your Business
     * Workout Challenge
     * Forensic Sketch Artist
     * Plant Babies

   The best corporate team building games for the office are designed to
   feel like a break from work, and provide opportunities to socialize
   with your team members. Feel free to alter the rules to better tailor
   the games for your team.

What fun team building games can you play without materials?

   Need to throw together a quick and easy team building game? Here are
   some games that you can play without materials:
     * Two Truths and One Lie
     * Pitch Me Your Business
     * Never Have I Ever
     * Work Limericks
     * Alphabet Chain

   These games are simple to put together and do not require a huge amount
   of commitment to host. Using a laptop and video conferencing service,
   all these games can also be played remotely with your team.
   Share:
     * Twit
     * Linked
     * Email Share

   Author avatar

   Author: Jessica Chen

   Content Expert at teambuilding.com.
   Team building content expert. Jessica has a double major in English and
   Asian Studies, and experience working with teams across cultures;
   including 3+ years in Taiwan.

   LinkedIn Jessica Chen

   Team Building logo

   Our mission is to build happier teams.

   info@teambuilding.com

   +1 800-683-8494

Company

     * About
     * Reviews
     * Contact
     * Jobs

Services

     * Virtual Experiences
     * In-Person Experiences
     * Experience Packages

Free Resources

     * Blog
     * Videos

   © 2024 teambuilding.com, all rights reserved | Terms | Privacy
