   #9.4 Influence of New Technologies 10.6 Blurring the Boundaries Between
   Video Games, Information, Entertainment, and Communication alternate
   alternate

   Skip to main content

   [OST-SOS-SUNY-logos_SOS-white.png]

Media and Culture

Chapter 10: Electronic Games and Entertainment

   Search for: ____________________ Search

10.4 The Impact of Video Games on Culture

Learning Objectives

    1. Describe gaming culture and how it has influenced mainstream
       culture.
    2. Analyze the ways video games have affected other forms of media.
    3. Describe how video games can be used for educational purposes.
    4. Identify the arguments for and against the depiction of video games
       as an art.

   An NPD poll conducted in 2007 found that 72 percent of the U.S.
   population had played a video game that year (Faylor, 2008). The
   increasing number of people playing video games means that video games
   are having an undeniable effect on culture. This effect is clearly
   visible in the increasing mainstream acceptance of aspects of gaming
   culture. Video games have also changed the way that many other forms of
   media, from music to film, are produced and consumed. Education has
   also been changed by video games through the use of new technologies
   that help teachers and students communicate in new ways through
   educational games such as Brain Age. As video games have an increasing
   influence on our culture, many have voiced their opinions on whether
   this form of media should be considered an art.

Game Culture

   To fully understand the effects of video games on mainstream culture,
   it is important to understand the development of gaming culture, or the
   culture surrounding video games. Video games, like books or movies,
   have avid users who have made this form of media central to their
   lives. In the early 1970s, programmers got together in groups to play
   Spacewar!, spending a great deal of time competing in a game that was
   rudimentary compared to modern games (Brand). As video arcades and home
   video game consoles gained in popularity, youth culture quickly adapted
   to this type of media, engaging in competitions to gain high scores and
   spending hours at the arcade or with the home console.

   In the 1980s, an increasing number of kids were spending time on
   consoles playing games and, more importantly, increasingly identifying
   with the characters and products associated with the games. Saturday
   morning cartoons were made out of the Pac-Man and Super Mario Bros.
   games, and an array of nongame merchandise was sold with video game
   logos and characters. The public recognition of some of these
   characters has made them into cultural icons. A poll taken in 2007
   found that more Canadians surveyed could identify a photo of Mario,
   from Super Mario Bros., than a photo of the current Canadian prime
   minister (Cohn & Toronto, 2007).

   As the kids who first played Super Mario Bros. began to outgrow video
   games, companies such as Sega, and later Sony and Microsoft, began
   making games to appeal to older demographics. This has increased the
   average age of video game players, which was 35 in 2009 (Entertainment
   Software Association, 2009). The Nintendo Wii has even found a new
   demographic in retirement communities, where Wii Bowling has become a
   popular form of entertainment for the residents (Wischnowsky). The
   gradual increase in gaming age has led to an acceptance of video games
   as an acceptable form of mainstream entertainment.

The Subculture of Geeks

   The acceptance of video games in mainstream culture has consequently
   changed the way that the culture views certain people. “Geek” was the
   name given to people who were adept at technology but lacking in the
   skills that tended to make one popular, like fashion sense or athletic
   ability. Many of these people, because they often did not fare well in
   society, favored imaginary worlds such as those found in the fantasy
   and science fiction genres. Video games were appealing because they
   were both a fantasy world and a means to excel at something. Jim
   Rossignol, in his 2008 book This Gaming Life: Travels in Three Cities,
   explained part of the lure of playing Quake III online:

   Cold mornings, adolescent disinterest, and a nagging hip injury had
   meant that I was banished from the sports field for many years. I
   wasn’t going to be able to indulge in the camaraderie that sports teams
   felt or in the extended buzz of victory through dedication and
   cooperation. That entire swathe of experience had been cut off from me
   by cruel circumstance and a good dose of self-defeating apathy. Now,
   however, there was a possibility for some kind of redemption: a sport
   for the quick-fingered and the computer-bound; a space of possibility
   in which I could mold friends and strangers into a proficient gaming
   team (Rossignol, 2008).

   Video games gave a group of excluded people a way to gain proficiency
   in the social realm. As video games became more of a mainstream
   phenomenon and video game skills began to be desired by a large number
   of people, the popular idea of geeks changed. It is now common to see
   the term “geek” used to mean a person who understands computers and
   technology. This former slur is also prominent in the media, with
   headlines in 2010 such as “Geeks in Vogue: Top Ten Cinematic Nerds
   (Sharp, 2010).”

   Many media stories focusing on geeks examine the ways in which this
   subculture has been accepted by the mainstream. Geeks may have become
   “cooler,” but mainstream culture has also become “geekier.” The
   acceptance of geek culture has led to acceptance of geek aesthetics.
   The mainstreaming of video games has led to acceptance of fantasy or
   virtual worlds. This is evident in the popularity of film/book series
   such as The Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter. Comic book characters,
   emblems of geek culture, have become the vehicles for blockbuster
   movies such as Spider-Man and The Dark Knight. The idea of a fantasy or
   virtual world has come to appeal to greater numbers of people. Virtual
   worlds such as those represented in the Grand Theft Auto and Halo
   series and online games such as World of Warcraft have expanded the
   idea of virtual worlds so that they are not mere means of escape but
   new ways to interact (Konzack, 2006).

The Effects of Video Games on Other Types of Media

   Video games during the 1970s and ’80s were often derivatives of other
   forms of media. E.T., Star Wars, and a number of other games took their
   cues from movies, television shows, and books. This began to change in
   the 1980s with the development of cartoons based on video games, and in
   the 1990s and 2000s with live-action feature films based on video
   games.

Television

   Television programs based on video games were an early phenomenon.
   Pac-Man, Pole Position, and Q*bert were among the animated programs
   that aired in the early 1980s. In the later 1980s, shows such as The
   Super Mario Bros. Super Show! and The Legend of Zelda promoted Nintendo
   games. In the 1990s, Pokémon, originally a game developed for the
   Nintendo Game Boy, was turned into a television series, a card game,
   several movies, and even a musical (Internet Movie Database). Recently,
   several programs have been developed that revolve entirely around video
   games—the web series The Guild, for instance, tells the story of a
   group of friends who interact through an unspecified MMORPG.

   Nielsen, the company that tabulates television ratings, has begun
   rating video games in a similar fashion. In 2010, this information
   showed that video games, as a whole, could be considered a kind of
   fifth network, along with the television networks NBC, ABC, CBS, and
   Fox (Shields, 2009). Advertisers use Nielsen ratings to decide which
   programs to support. The use of this system is changing public
   perceptions to include video game playing as a habit similar to
   television watching.

   Video games have also influenced the way that television is produced.
   The Rocket Racing League, scheduled to be launched in 2011, will
   feature a “virtual racetrack.” Racing jets will travel along a virtual
   track that can only be seen by pilots and spectators with enabled
   equipment. Applications for mobile devices are being developed that
   will allow spectators to race virtual jets alongside the ones flying in
   real time (Hadhazy, 2010). This type of innovation is only possible
   with a public that has come to demand and rely on the kind of
   interactivity that video games provide.

Film

   The rise in film adaptations of video games accompanies the increased
   age of video game users. In 1995, Mortal Kombat, a live-action movie
   based on the video game, grossed over $70 million at the box office,
   placing it 22nd in the rankings for that year (Box Office Mojo). Lara
   Croft: Tomb Raider, released in 2001, starred well-known actress
   Angelina Jolie and ranked No. 1 at the box office when it was released,
   and 15th overall for the year (Box Office Mojo). Films based on video
   games are an increasingly common sight at the box office, such as
   producer Jerry Bruckheimer’s Prince of Persia, or the recent sequel to
   Tron, based on the idea of a virtual gaming arena.

   Another aspect of video games’ influence on films is how video game
   releases are marketed and perceived. The release date for anticipated
   game Grand Theft Auto IV was announced and marketed to compete with the
   release of the film Iron Man. Grand Theft Auto IV supposedly beat Iron
   Man by $300 million in sales. This kind of comparison is, in some ways,
   misleading. Video games cost much more than a ticket to a movie, so
   higher sales does not mean that more people bought the game than the
   movie. Also, the distribution apparatus for the two media is totally
   different. Movies can only be released in theaters, whereas video games
   can be sold at any retail outlet (Associated Press, 2008). What this
   kind of news story proves, however, is that the general public
   considers video games as something akin to a film. It is also important
   to realize that the scale of production and profit for video games is
   similar to that of films. Video games include music scores, actors, and
   directors in addition to the game designers, and the budgets for major
   games reflect this. Grand Theft Auto IV cost an estimated $100 million
   to produce (Bowditch, 2008).

Music

   Video games have been accompanied by music ever since the days of the
   arcade. Video game music was originally limited to computer beeps
   turned into theme songs. The design of the Nintendo 64, Sega Saturn,
   and Sony PlayStation made it possible to use sampled audio on new
   games, meaning songs played on physical instruments could be recorded
   and used on video games. Beginning with the music of the Final Fantasy
   series, scored by famed composer Nobuo Uematsu, video game music took
   on film score quality, complete with full orchestral and vocal tracks.
   This innovation proved beneficial to the music industry. Well-known
   musicians such as Trent Reznor, Thomas Dolby, Steve Vai, and Joe
   Satriani were able to create the soundtracks for popular games, giving
   these artists exposure to new generations of potential fans (Video
   Games Music Big Hit, 1997). Composing music for video games has turned
   into a profitable means of employment for many musicians. Schools such
   as Berklee College of Music, Yale, and New York University have
   programs that focus on composing music for video games. The students
   are taught many of the same principles that are involved in film
   scoring (Khan, 2010).

   Many rock bands have allowed their previously recorded songs to be used
   in video games, similar to a hit song being used on a movie soundtrack.
   The bands are paid for the rights to use the song, and their music is
   exposed to an audience that otherwise might not hear it. As mentioned
   earlier, games like Rock Band and Guitar Hero have been used to promote
   bands. The release of The Beatles: Rock Band was timed to coincide with
   the release of digitally remastered reissues of the Beatles’ albums.

   Another phenomenon relating to music and video games involves musicians
   covering video game music. A number of bands perform only video game
   covers in a variety of styles, such as the popular Japanese group the
   Black Mages, which performs rock versions of Final Fantasy music.
   Playing video game themes is not limited to rock bands, however. An
   orchestra and chorus called Video Games Live started a tour in 2005
   dedicated to playing well-known video game music. Their performances
   are often accompanied by graphics projected onto a screen showing
   relevant sequences from the video games (Play Symphony).

Machinima

   Recently, the connection between video games and other media has
   increased with the popularity of machinima, animated films and series
   created by recording character actions inside video games. Beginning
   with the short film “Diary of a Camper,” filmed inside the game Quake
   in 1996, fans of video games have adopted the technique of machinima to
   tell their own stories. Although these early movies were released only
   online and targeted a select niche of gamers, professional filmmakers
   have since adopted the process, using machinima to storyboard scenes
   and to add a sense of individuality to computer-generated shots. This
   new form of media is increasingly becoming mainstream, as TV shows such
   as South Park and channels such as MTV2 have introduced machinima to a
   larger audience (Strickland).

Video Games and Education

   image

   Figure 10.7 Educational video games have proven to be useful tools for
   educators.

   One sign of the mainstreaming of video games is the increase of
   educational institutions that embrace them. As early as the 1980s,
   games such as Number Munchers and Word Munchers were designed to help
   children develop basic math and grammar skills. In 2006, the Federation
   of American Scientists completed a study that approved of video game
   use in education. The study cited the fact that video game systems were
   present in most households, kids favored learning through video games,
   and games could be used to facilitate analytical skills (Feller, 2006).
   Another study, published in the science journal Nature in 2002, found
   that regular video game players had better developed visual-processing
   skills than people who did not play video games. Participants in the
   test were asked to play a first-person shooter game for 1 hour a day
   for 10 days, and were then tested for specific visual attention skills.
   The playing improved these skills in all participants, but the regular
   video game players had a greater skill level than the non–game players.
   According to the study, “Although video-game playing may seem to be
   rather mindless, it is capable of radically altering visual attention
   processing (Green & Bavelier, 2003).”

   Other educational institutions have begun to embrace video games as
   well. The Boy Scouts of America have created a “belt loop,” something
   akin to a merit badge, for tasks including learning to play a
   parent-approved game and developing a schedule to balance video game
   time with homework (Murphy, 2010). The federal government has also seen
   the educational potential of video games. A commission on balancing the
   federal budget suggested a video game that would educate Americans
   about the necessary costs of balancing the federal budget (Wolf, 2010).
   The military has similarly embraced video games as training simulators
   for new soldiers. These simulators, working off of newer game
   technologies, present several different realistic options that soldiers
   could face on the field. The games have also been used as recruiting
   tools by the U.S. Army and the Army National Guard (Associated Press,
   2003).

   The ultimate effect of video game use for education, whether in schools
   or in the public arena, means that video games have been validated by
   established cultural authorities. Many individuals still resist the
   idea that video games can be beneficial or have a positive cultural
   influence, but their embrace by educational institutions has given
   video games validation.

Video Games as Art

   While universally accepted as a form of media, a debate has recently
   arisen over whether video games can be considered a form of art. Roger
   Ebert, the well-known film critic, has historically argued that “video
   games can never be art,” citing the fact that video games are meant to
   be won, whereas art is meant to be experienced (Ebert, 2010).

   His remarks have generated an outcry from both video gamers and
   developers. Many point to games such as 2009’s Flower, in which players
   control the flow of flower petals in the wind, as examples of video
   games developing into art. Flower avoids specific plot and characters
   to allow the player to focus on interaction with the landscape and the
   emotion of the game-play (That Game Company). Likewise, more mainstream
   games such as the popular Katamari series, released in 2004, are built
   around the idea of creation, requiring players to pull together a
   massive clump of objects in order to create a star.

   Video games, once viewed as a mindless source of entertainment, are now
   being featured in publications such as The New Yorker magazine and The
   New York Times (Fisher, 2010). With the development of increasingly
   complex musical scores and the advent of machinima, the boundaries
   between video games and other forms of media are slowly blurring. While
   they may not be considered art by everyone, video games have
   contributed significantly to modern artistic culture.

Key Takeaways

     * The aesthetics and principles of gaming culture have had an
       increasing effect on mainstream culture. This has led to the
       gradual acceptance of marginalized social groups and increased
       comfort with virtual worlds and the pursuit of new means of
       interaction.
     * Video games have gone from being a derivative medium that took its
       cues from other media, such as books, films, and music, to being a
       form of media that other types derive new ideas from. Video games
       have also interacted with older forms of media to change them and
       create new means of entertainment and interaction.
     * Educational institutions have embraced the use of video games as
       valuable tools for teaching. These tools include simulated worlds
       in which important life skills can be learned and improved.
     * While video games may not be accepted by everyone as a form of art,
       there is no doubt that they contribute greatly to artistic media
       such as music and film.

Exercises

   Think about the ways in which video games have influenced and affected
   other forms of media. Then consider the following questions:
    1. Are there things video games will never be able to offer?
    2. Write down several examples of ways in which other forms of media
       are not replicated by video games. Then speculate on ways video
       games could eventually emulate these forms.

References

   Associated Press, “‘Grand Theft Auto IV’ Beats ‘Iron Man’ by $300
   Million,” Fox News, May 9, 2008,
   http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,354711,00.html.

   Associated Press, “Military Training Is Just a Game,” Wired, October 3,
   2003, http://www.wired.com/gaming/gamingreviews/news/2003/10/60688.

   Bowditch, Gillian. “Grand Theft Auto Producer is Godfather of Gaming,”
   Times (London), April 27, 2008,
   http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/uk/scotland/article3821838.ece.

   Box Office Mojo, “Lara Croft: Tomb Raider,”
   http://www.boxofficemojo.com/movies/?id=tombraider.htm.

   Box Office Mojo, “Mortal Kombat,”
   http://boxofficemojo.com/movies/?id=mortalkombat.htm.

   Brand, “Space War.”

   Cohn & Wolfe Toronto, “Italian Plumber More Memorable Than Harper,
   Dion,” news release, November 13, 2007,
   http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/mmnr/Super_Mario_Galaxy/index.html.

   Ebert, Roger. “Video Games Can Never Be Art,” Chicago Sun-Times, April
   16, 2010,
   http://blogs.suntimes.com/ebert/2010/04/video_games_can_never_be_art.ht
   ml.

   Entertainment Software Association, Essential Facts About the Computer
   and Video Game Industry: 2009 Sales, Demographic, and Usage Data, 2009,
   http://www.theesa.com/facts/pdfs/ESA_EF_2009.pdf.

   Faylor, Chris. “NPD: 72% of U.S. Population Played Games in 2007; PC
   Named “Driving Force in Online Gaming,” Shack News, April 2, 2008,
   http://www.shacknews.com/onearticle.x/52025.

   Feller, Ben. “Group: Video Games Can Reshape Education,” MSNBC, October
   18, 2006, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/15309615/from/ET/.

   Fisher, Max. “Are Video Games Art?” Atlantic Wire, April 19, 2010,
   http://www.theatlanticwire.com/features/view/feature/Are-Video-Games-Ar
   t-1085/.

   Green, C. Shawn. and Daphne Bavelier, “Action Video Game Modifies
   Visual Selective Attention,” Nature 423, no. 6939 (2003): 534–537.

   Hadhazy, Adam. “’NASCAR of the Skies’ to Feature Video Game-Like
   Interactivity,” TechNewsDaily, April 26, 2010,
   http://www.technewsdaily.com/nascar-of-the-skies-to-feature-video-game-
   like-interactivity–0475/.

   Internet Movie Database, “Pokémon,” http://www.imdb.com/.

   Khan, Joseph P. “Berklee is Teaching Its Students to Compose Scores for
   Video Games,” Boston Globe, January 19, 2010,
   http://www.boston.com/news/education/higher/articles/2010/01/19/berklee
   _is_teaching_students_to_compose_scores_for_video_games/.

   Konzack, Lars. “Geek Culture: The 3rd Counter-Culture,” (paper,
   FNG2006, Preston, England, June 26–28, 2006),
   http://www.scribd.com/doc/270364/Geek-Culture-The-3rd-CounterCulture.

   Murphy, David. “Boy Scouts Develop ‘Vide Game’ Merit Badge,” PC
   Magazine, May 2, 2010,
   http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2363331,00.asp.

   Play Symphony, Jason Michael Paul Productions, “About,” Play! A Video
   Game Symphony, http://www.play-symphony.com/about.php.

   Rossignol, Jim. This Gaming Life: Travels in Three Cities (Ann Arbor,
   MI: University of Michigan Press, 2008), 17.

   Sharp, Craig. “Geeks in Vogue: Top Ten Cinematic Nerds,” Film Shaft,
   April 26, 2010,
   http://www.filmshaft.com/geeks-in-vogue-top-ten-cinematic-nerds/.

   Shields, Mike. “Nielsen: Video Games Approach 5th Network Status,”
   Adweek, March 25, 2009,
   http://www.adweek.com/aw/content_display/news/agency/e3i4f087b1aeac6f00
   8d0ecadfeffe4a191.

   Strickland, Jonathan. “How Machinima Works,” HowStuffWorks.com,
   http://entertainment.howstuffworks.com/machinima3.htm.

   That Game Company, “Flower,” http://thatgamecompany.com/games/flower/.

   Video Games Music Big Hit, “Video Games Music Big Hit,” Wilmington (NC)
   Morning Star, February 1, 1997, 36.

   Wischnowsky, “Wii Bowling.”

   Wolf, Richard. “Nation’s Soaring Deficit Calls for Painful Choices,”
   USA Today, April 14, 2010,
   http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-12-deficit_N.htm.

   Licenses and Attributions
   CC licensed content, Shared previously
     * Understanding Media and Culture: An Introduction to Mass
       Communication. Provided by: This adapted edition is produced by the
       University of Minnesota Libraries Publishing through the eLearning
       Support Initiative.. Located at:
       https://open.lib.umn.edu/mediaandculture/. License: CC BY-NC-SA:
       Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike

   Previous Next

   Footer Logo Lumen Candela

   Privacy Policy
