    Skip to main content

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-M7NGJ28

   Design + UX
   Gaming
   Media + Gaming
   Design + UX
   +2

43 Gaming Companies You Need to Know

   From pick-up-and-play casual mobile games to geocache hunting to
   bleeding-edge virtual reality, these innovative upstarts and trusted
   veterans are why video gaming continues to lap all entertainment
   competitors.
   [stephen%20%281%29.png]
   Written byStephen Gossett
   [stephen%20%281%29.png]
   Stephen Gossett
   Senior Staff Reporter at Built In
   Stephen Gossett is a former Built In senior staff reporter covering
   technology trends, design, UX and data science. Prior to joining Built
   In, he was a digital editor at the design-focused Sixtysix Magazine and
   associate editor at Chicagoist.
   back-of-head shot of person wearing headphones and playing video games
   Image: Shutterstock

   Brennan Whitfield
   Staff Reporter, Updates at Built In
   UPDATED BY
   Brennan Whitfield | Nov 20, 2023

   In the letter to shareholders heard `round the entertainment world,
   Netflix famously admitted that it competes with -- and loses to -- the
   popular video game Fortnite more than HBO. And while the gargantuan
   success of that Epic Games blockbuster surely remains an outlier, the
   subtext is unmistakable: In the knock-down, drag-out competition for
   users' screen time, the video gaming industry is booming where
   yesterday's entertainment forerunners are lagging, if not outright
   busting.

   The global video game market is projected to see more than $365 billion
   in revenue for 2023, which is up from almost $320 billion in 2022,
   according to data from Statista. The gaming industry owes some of that
   success to its adaptation of tech breakthroughs and its discovery of
   new business strategies -- both of which are also generated internally.

Top Video Game Companies

     * Nintendo
     * Ubisoft
     * Electronic Arts
     * 2K
     * Microsoft
     * Sony Interactive Entertainment

   To get an idea of who's doing what in an industry that seems to be in
   perpetual flux, check out these gaming industry innovators.


   An error occurred.
   Unable to execute JavaScript. Try watching this video on
   www.youtube.com, or enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your
   browser.
   Biggest Video Game Companies | Top 10 World Trend | Video: Top10 World
   Trend

Gaming Companies to Know

   Our Holodeck

Sandbox VR

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: San Francisco, California

   Sandbox VR is a tech and gaming company that specializes in bringing
   consumers immersive experiences. It operates retail stores where
   customers can test out full-body motion tracking gear, use motion
   capture cameras and play in "holodecks," which put groups of users
   together into immersive social experiences. For example, Sandbox VR's
   Squid Game Virtuals experience lets customers compete in games inspired
   by the popular Netflix series.
   They're Hiring | View 2 JobsSandbox VR is Hiring | View 2 Jobs


2K

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Novato, California

   2K makes interactive games for mobile, computer and console play. Its
   2K Sports division includes titles like the NBA 2K series, while its 2K
   Play division releases titles like Lego 2K Drive. The company operates
   a testing lab where users known as "playtesters" can play new and
   existing games and offer feedback to the development teams.
   They're Hiring | View 7 Jobs2K is Hiring | View 7 Jobs


Intercept Games

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Seattle, Washington

   Intercept Games is a gaming development studio that leans toward space,
   simulation and strategy-based games. Its current major project is the
   Kerbal Space Program 2 video game, which uses immersive audio content
   to simulate a rocket launch -- and it's so realistic that some NASA
   staff have used the program to run experiments.
   They're Hiring | View 6 JobsIntercept Games is Hiring | View 6 Jobs


Iron Galaxy Studios

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Chicago, Illinois

   Iron Galaxy Studios' portfolio of video games includes more than 60
   different titles, with projects that have been available to play on
   platforms including PlayStation, Xbox, Oculus and Nintendo Switch. In
   addition to developing its own titles, like Rumbleverse, The company
   has been helping other major players in the gaming industry port some
   of their most popular titles, such as Skyrim and Crash Bandicoot, to
   newer platforms.
   They're Hiring | View 15 JobsIron Galaxy Studios is Hiring | View 15
   Jobs


Epic Games

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Cary, North Carolina

   As the monoculture continues to fragment, we may never see another
   Pac-Man-style capital-P phenomenon, but the long-tail success of
   Fortnite has come awfully close. Separate from that mammoth success,
   Epic Games -- which dates back well beyond the internet era -- is
   looking toward the future with projects like Unreal Engine, a product
   development suite that includes hyper-realistic design renderings that
   also have automotive applications.
   They're Hiring | View 74 JobsEpic Games is Hiring | View 74 Jobs


PointsBet

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Denver, Colorado

   PointsBet is an online sports betting marketplace where clients can
   place wagers on an intricate array of options in sports, including
   professional basketball, football and baseball. It offers all standard
   betting options, but its signature proprietary option is
   "pointsbetting," a volatile point spread wager that pays out according
   to the margin of victory or loss. That means the size of the win
   determines the size of the payout and vice versa.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsPointsBet is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


Volley

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: San Francisco, California

   Volley creates voice-controlled games that can be played using an
   Amazon Alexa or Google Home smart speaker. Its offerings include
   well-known titles like The Price Is Right, Jeopardy, Wheel of Fortune
   and Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?
   They're Hiring | View 6 JobsVolley is Hiring | View 6 Jobs

   Read More9 Blockchain Gaming Examples to Know


Exploding Kittens

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Los Angeles, California

   Not quite a video game company, but a gaming company nonetheless,
   Exploding Kittens is the maker of the card game with which it shares a
   name and describes as a "kitty powered version of Russian Roulette."
   More than 11 million Exploding Kittens games have been sold, and other
   popular products from the company include the pinball-esque A Game of
   Cat & Mouth, the word-guessing game Poetry for Neanderthals and the
   word-shouting board game Really Loud Librarians.
   They're Hiring | View 1 JobsExploding Kittens is Hiring | View 1 Jobs


Activision Blizzard

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Santa Monica, California

   Famous for PC and console franchises like World of Warcraft, Call of
   Duty and Overwatch, Activision Blizzard is also the company behind the
   juggernaut synonymous with mobile gaming: Candy Crush. The company was
   acquired by Microsoft in 2023, joining legendary brands like Rare, id
   Software and Bethesda Softworks.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsActivision Blizzard is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


Nintendo

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Redmond, Washington

   Nintendo is known both for its games and gaming consoles. With roots
   dating as far back as the late 1800s, the company first debuted its
   famous characters Mario and Donkey Kong nearly 100 years later in the
   1980s. There are now thousands of titles users can play on Nintendo
   Switch, including popular Nintendo published games like Animal
   Crossing: New Horizons, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and The Legend of Zelda:
   Breath of the Wild.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsNintendo is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


Ubisoft

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: San Francisco, California

   Founded in the 1980s, Ubisoft is the company behind popular gaming
   franchises like Assassin's Creed, Far Cry, Rabbids and Just Dance.
   Ubisoft is one of the world's largest independent video game
   publishers, and many of its games are available across platforms
   including PlayStation, Xbox, PC and Nintendo Switch. The company's
   areas of technological expertise include artificial intelligence and
   cloud gaming.
   They're Hiring | View 12 JobsUbisoft is Hiring | View 12 Jobs


Gameloft

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Paris, France

   Gameloft has 190 games in its portfolio with 1.5 million downloads
   completed daily. For two decades, the company has been developing games
   for mobile, PC and gaming consoles. Gameloft is known for titles like
   The Oregon Trail and Dragon Mania Legends.
   They're Hiring | View 7 JobsGameloft is Hiring | View 7 Jobs


Twitch

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: San Francisco, California

   It's not a gaming company per se, but few outfits are as inextricable
   from the gaming landscape as streaming platform Twitch. The go-to
   broadcasting choice for the e-sports community and other gamers, the
   video platform-meets-social community was acquired by Amazon in 2014
   and (per the company) attracts more than 10 million monthly visitors.
   They're Hiring | View 6 JobsTwitch is Hiring | View 6 Jobs


Mythical Games

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Sherman Oaks, California

   Mythical Games is a team of veteran game and platform developers
   working together to bring groundbreaking new ideas to market and
   enhance the gameplay experience. The company is dedicated to playing a
   part in creating an integrated secondary market built on true ownership
   of digital assets to bring players, developers and content creators
   closer together.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsMythical Games is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


MobilityWare

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Irvine, California

   MobilityWare specializes in developing tremendously replayable games
   for mobile devices and Facebook. The company's impressive roster of
   games includes Solitaire, Spider Solitaire, Jigsaw Puzzle and Video
   Poker, providing users with hours of entertainment without any learning
   curve.
   They're Hiring | View 5 JobsMobilityWare is Hiring | View 5 Jobs


Take-Two Interactive Software

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: New York, New York

   This veteran gaming company is one of the most recognizable names in
   the industry. Take-Two Interactive Software's two divisions, Rockstar
   Games and 2K, are responsible for some certified cultural phenomena,
   including the former's infamous Grand Theft Auto and the latter's NBA
   2K. Blockbuster Red Dead Redemption 2 is emblematic of the company's
   rigorous attention to graphic and motion detail.
   They're Hiring | View 19 JobsTake-Two Interactive Software is Hiring |
   View 19 Jobs


Bungie

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Bellevue, Washington

   Bungie is the game company best known for creating blockbuster
   science-fiction franchises Halo and Destiny. Founded in Chicago in
   1991, Bungie was acquired by Microsoft in 2000 and blazed new trails
   for console-based first-person shooters with Halo: Combat Evolved.
   Bungie spun out of Microsoft in 2007 but continued work on the Halo
   franchise up to the launch of 2010's Halo: Reach. The company launched
   the first game in its current flagship franchise, Destiny, in 2014.
   Bungie was acquired by Sony Interactive Entertainment in 2022.
   They're Hiring | View 9 JobsBungie is Hiring | View 9 Jobs


Warner Bros. Discovery

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Burbank, California

   Holding some of the most prime IP this side of Marvel in its portfolio
   has proven a sound business strategy for this major entertainment
   company. The game division of Warner Bros. Entertainment, a brand under
   the Warner Bros. Discovery umbrella, operates hit franchises like
   Mortal Kombat, which is headed up by Chicago-based subsidiary
   NetherRealm Studios, and Batman: Arkham, which was launched by
   London-based wing Rocksteady Studios.
   They're Hiring | View 395 JobsWarner Bros. Discovery is Hiring | View
   395 Jobs


DoubleDown Interactive LLC

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Seattle, Washington

   DoubleDown Interactive makes social versions of classic casino games --
   everything from blackjack and slots to poker and roulette -- for social
   and mobile platforms. The company started out with the launch of a
   social casino game on Facebook in 2010, and by 2015, was among the
   top-performing games in the Apple App Store.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsDoubleDown Interactive LLC is Hiring | View
   0 Jobs


Electronic Arts (EA)

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Redwood City, California

   One of the industry's true powerhouses, EA is proof that quality and
   quantity need not be mutually exclusive. The EA Sports division is
   responsible for some of the most iconic sports-games franchises,
   including FIFA, Madden NFL and NBA Live. EA's classic non-sports series
   range from The Sims to Medal of Honor, and its Mobile subsidiary does a
   reliably good job of putting those hits in your pocket.
   They're Hiring | View 57 JobsElectronic Arts (EA) is Hiring | View 57
   Jobs


Jam City

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Culver City, California

   Jam City has produced game adaptations of massively popular tentpole
   franchises, including Harry Potter and Marvel Avengers titles. They
   also inked a multi-year deal with Disney to develop games. The
   developer -- which counts the creators of MySpace and a former 20th
   Century Fox executive among its co-founders -- has proven to be a major
   leader, particularly in the free-to-play social and mobile categories.
   They're Hiring | View 9 JobsJam City is Hiring | View 9 Jobs

   More on Gaming31 Gaming PC Companies You Need to Know


ArenaNet LLC

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Bellevue, Washington

   Started by a trio of former Blizzard programmers, this long-running
   outfit is known for massively-multiplayer-online successes like Guild
   Wars and Guild Wars 2. ArenaNet, a subsidiary of NCSOFT, is also known
   for incorporating the increasingly popular episodic-update model.
   They're Hiring | View 10 JobsArenaNet LLC is Hiring | View 10 Jobs


Bonfire Studios

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Irvine, California

   Bonfire Studios emerged from stealth in late 2016 after raising $25
   million to build a highly anticipated title. The company is staffed
   with artists, level designers, character developers, animators, UX
   designers, VFX artists, developers and more, all bringing unique
   talents to the team with a goal of uniting players in a sense of
   adventure, exploration and fellowship.
   They're Hiring | View 6 JobsBonfire Studios is Hiring | View 6 Jobs


PlayQ

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Santa Monica, California

   Play Q is an on-the-rise mobile gaming developer. The company
   rioritizes easy-to-grasp gameplay, colorful graphics, fit-for-all-ages
   narratives and just-so degrees of familiarity -- think puzzles and
   platforms.
   They're Hiring | View 3 JobsPlayQ is Hiring | View 3 Jobs


IllFonic

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Golden, Colorado

   Co-founded by music industry veterans, IllFonic has grown into a
   leading indie game developer, making its name on tactical titles like
   Armored Warfare and horror survival games like Friday the 13th: The
   Game. The company takes strides to maintain an independent spirit even
   as it continues to grow, and it carefully plans projects with an eye
   toward the long term, according to top brass.
   They're Hiring | View 2 JobsIllFonic is Hiring | View 2 Jobs


Insomniac Games

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Burbank, California

   The creative force behind the blockbuster Spider-Man series, Insomniac
   Games earned its name on PlayStation exclusives like Ratchet & Clank
   and Spyro the Dragon. Acquired by Sony Interactive Entertainment in
   2019, the studio is currently working on another comic book title:
   Marvel's Wolverine.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsInsomniac Games is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


Nexon

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: El Segundo, California

   Nexon has been in the gaming industry for more than 20 years and has
   produced dozens of massively multiplayer online role-playing games that
   are available to users in more than 190 countries. The company's games
   can be played on Windows, Xbox, PlayStation and mobile.
   They're Hiring | View 8 JobsNexon is Hiring | View 8 Jobs


Obsidian Entertainment

   View Profile
   We are hiring

   Location: Irvine, California

   The age of sequels surely extends to the gaming world, and these RPG
   specialists--launched in 2003 by a team of ex-Black Isle
   employees--built their name on a couple of better-than-the-original
   follow-ups: Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords
   and Neverwinter Nights 2. Meanwhile, the well-known crowdfunding
   success for Pillars of Eternity revealed that Obsidian is adept at
   maneuvering the long falls that can be endemic to the quicksilver
   gaming industry.
   They're Hiring | View 7 JobsObsidian Entertainment is Hiring | View 7
   Jobs


   Text Logo in Speech Bubble

Deck Nine Games

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Westminster, Colorado

   Deck Nine Games is an independent video game development company that
   focuses on creating games that feature narrative storytelling. The
   company's titles include graphic adventures Life Is Strange: Before the
   Storm and Life Is Strange: True Colors.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsDeck Nine Games is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


The Pokémon Company International

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Bellevue, Washington

   The Pokémon Company International, a subsidiary of The Pokémon Company
   based in Japan, is primarily responsible for managing aspects of the
   Pokémon brand, its licensing and its marketing in regions outside of
   Asia. That includes news, updates and additional information for the
   brand's many video games, from Pokemon GO on mobile to Pokemon Snap for
   Nintendo Switch. The company also handles all aspects of the Pokémon
   Trading Card Game, the brand's animated television series, its website
   and more.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsThe Pokémon Company International is Hiring
   | View 0 Jobs


Private Division

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: New York, New York

   Private Division is a game publishing company that advocates for small
   game developers, providing them with opportunities to successfully
   launch games commercially and globally. Some titles published by
   Private Division include Hades from Supergiant Games, OlliOlli World
   from Roll7 and Disintegration from V1 Interactive.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsPrivate Division is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


Raven Software

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Madison, Wisconsin

   According to its website, Raven Software's decision to stay rooted in
   Wisconsin, which isn't particularly known for its gaming industry, was
   a conscious choice -- one that comes with notable cost-of-living and
   community perks. As for its game portfolio, highlights include
   Heretic/Hexen and Soldier of Fortune. It has also notably lent
   assistance to fellow Activision partners Treyarch and Infinity Ward on
   Call of Duty entries
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsRaven Software is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


Geocaching

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Seattle, Washington

   Years before the great Pokémon GO scare of 2016, this spatial computing
   pioneer was already getting gamers outside and GPS-scavenging for
   treasure. Geocaching has also nurtured a robust network of forums,
   events and even environmental outreach, encouraging responsible play
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsGeocaching is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


Naughty Dog

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Santa Monica, California

   Naughty Dog started in a garage in the late 1980s and eventually grew
   to become one of the premier American gaming companies, thanks to
   watershed series like Crash Bandicoot, Jak and Daxter and Uncharted.
   One of the company's flagship franchises, The Last of Us, was turned
   into a prestige drama by HBO.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsNaughty Dog is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


Zynga

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: San Francisco, California

   Zynga has produced many of the most popular social mobile games of all
   time, with titles including Words With Friends, Farmville and Tiny
   Royale. The company's games have been played by over 1 billion users,
   leading to offices opening throughout the United States, Canada, the
   United Kingdom and India.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsZynga is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


PopCap Games

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Seattle, Washington

   Famous in the casual games market, PopCap made its mark with the
   once-ubiquitous tile-matching Bejeweled series -- which, according to
   its makers, once racked up a sale every 4.3 seconds and has sold in
   excess of 50 million units. After a post-Plants vs. Zombies acquisition
   by EA, the developer (which began inside a modest Seattle
   apartment) remains focused on breezy, grab-and-play fun.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsPopCap Games is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


Bethesda Softworks

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Rockville, Maryland

   This three-decade-plus-old powerhouse became a household name on the
   strength of pioneering RPG series The Elder Scrolls, which boasts
   worlds so intricate that they necessitated the creation of a
   "loremaster" job role. Bethesda Softworks has expanded into just about
   every other genre since then, including sports games, strategy games,
   shooters and beyond.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsBethesda Softworks is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


Valve Corporation

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Bellevue, Washington

   Founded more than 20 years ago by a pair of former Microsoft employees,
   Valve catapulted to acclaim and popularity with its very first title,
   the first-person shooter turning point Half-Life. The company also runs
   Steam -- one of the largest game stores for PC and Mac -- and has
   launched several hardware products including the Valve Index VR
   platform and Steam Deck, a popular Linux-based gaming handheld. The
   team's early VR breakthroughs infamously helped prompt Mark Zuckerberg
   to buy into the VR game
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsValve Corporation is Hiring | View 0 Jobs

   Further Reading29 Mobile Game Companies to Know


id Software

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Richardson, Texas

   Even the most casual gamers are likely familiar with legacy id titles
   like Wolfenstein 3D (perhaps the ne plus ultra of RPG), DOOM (which
   helped usher in the modern multiplayer model) and QUAKE--all of which
   revolutionized what a PC game could be. The company also pioneered the
   shareware distribution model.
   They're Hiring | View 0 Jobsid Software is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


Infinity Ward

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Woodland Hills, California

   Infinity Ward and its marquee series, Call of Duty, remain key revenue
   generators, now as an Activision subsidiary. The company was launched
   back in 2002 by a 2015, Inc. breakaway team that had previously worked
   on Medal of Honor: Allied Assault.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsInfinity Ward is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


Santa Monica Studios

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Los Angeles, California

   Two decades in, Santa Monica Studio still looks like a visionary. Cases
   in point: the God of War series, which has earned hundreds of Game of
   the Year awards; and the internally produced documentary Raising
   Kratos, about the tolls of game development.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsSanta Monica Studios is Hiring | View 0
   Jobs


Devolver Digital

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Austin, Texas

   Devolver Digital seeks out and shines a light on games from all over
   the planet, usually ones with a firmly offbeat sensibility. Examples
   range from a Swedish-made "violent ballet about friendship,
   imagination, and one man's struggle to obliterate anyone in his path at
   the behest of a sentient banana," to a turn-based adventure from a
   scrappy Polish indie about growing and selling weed.
   They're Hiring | View 0 JobsDevolver Digital is Hiring | View 0 Jobs


thatgamecompany

   View Profile
   Follow

   Location: Santa Monica, California

   Thatgamecompany's video game offerings -- Sky, Journey, Flower and Flow
   -- focus on "meaningful emotional impact" and "human connection." Over
   the years, its games have been featured in exhibits at the Smithsonian
   American Art Museum and MoMA.
   They're Hiring | View 0 Jobsthatgamecompany is Hiring | View 0 Jobs
   Margo Steines, Rose Velazquez and Andreas Rekdal contributed reporting
   to this story.
   Design + UX
   Gaming
   Media + Gaming

Great Companies Need Great People. That's Where We Come In.

   Recruit With Us

   BuiltIn
   United We Tech
   Built In is the online community for startups and tech companies. Find
   startup jobs, tech news and events.
   About
     * Our Story
     * Careers
     * Our Staff Writers
     * Content Descriptions
     * Company News

   Get Involved
     * Recruit With Built In
     * Subscribe to Our Newsletter
     * Become an Expert Contributor
     * Send Us a News Tip

   Resources
     * Customer Support
     * Share Feedback
     * Report a Bug
     * Tech A-Z
     * Browse Jobs

   Tech Hubs
     * Built In Austin
     * Built In Boston
     * Built In Chicago
     * Built In Colorado
     * Built In LA
     * Built In NYC
     * Built In San Francisco
     * Built In Seattle
     * See All Tech Hubs

   © Built In 2023
     * Learning Lab User Agreement
     * Accessibility Statement
     * Copyright Policy
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Use
     * Do Not Sell My Personal Info
     * CA Notice of Collection
